   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TGJPC4S

     * [en.png] English
     * [it.png] Italian
     * [de.png] German
     * [fr.png] French

   StreetFoody
     * Vehicles
     * Gallery
          + Photos
          + Video
     * Blog
     * About us
          + StreetFoody
          + Partners
     * Contacts

Gourmet on the road

     * What is
       street food?
     * street food:
       the story
     * Your
       opportunity
     * Become a
       street fooder


Street Food: the story

Street Food has existed ever since the first urban settlements were created.

   The most ancient evidence of food prepared and cooked on the street
   dates back to the dawn of civilisation, around ten thousand years ago.
   The ancient Greeks described the Egyptian custom, traditional in the
   port of Alexandria and subsequently adopted throughout Greece, of
   frying fish and selling it in the street. From Greece, the custom
   spread to the Roman world, enriched and transformed into numerous
   variations. In the excavations at Herculaneum and Pompei, the
   well-preserved remains of the typical “thermopolia” can be seen,
   forerunners of today’s food stalls. These were a kind of mini-kitchen
   facing directly onto the street, used for selling all types of cooked
   food, particularly stews of farro, beans or cicerchia.  At that time
   the less wealthy city dwellers lived in apartments, essentially blocks
   of flats, mostly without kitchens. So the populace ate in the street,
   buying their food from the nearest thermopolium, which supplied
   nourishing dishes affordable by all.

   And thus street food has evolved over the centuries in parallel with
   our civilisation, but discreetly, leaving very few traces considering
   its close links with the common people. But during the Middle Ages the
   big cities were bursting with stalls, huts and carts selling cheap
   ready-cooked food in the grubby streets of the seedier neighbourhoods.
   However, as is often the case, out of poverty comes the best of human
   ingenuity, and hence came the immortal recipes at the base of an entire
   culinary culture.  So in Paris there were the “pâtés”, or rather
   “pâstés”, pastry cases enclosing various fillings, usually stewed meat
   or vegetables, sold for a few pennies to errand boys and labourers so
   that they could eat while they worked, with no need for cutlery. These
   would lead to the term “patisserie” and during the Renaissance and the
   Enlightenment become the glory of grand tables all over Europe in the
   form of timbales, savoury pies and pastries of all kinds filled with
   truffles, pigeon and foie gras. The very same humble principle as the
   pies of the anglo-saxon lower classes: a crust made of flour, lard and
   water containing a cooked filling, eaten by English miners and factory
   workers during the industrial revolution. The crust was thrown away, as
   it would be soiled by coal or machine oil from their hands. British too
   is the veritable institution of fish and chips, sold on the street and
   wrapped in newspaper - a legacy of Sephardic Jewish refugees fleeing
   persecution during the late fifteenth and early sixteenth centuries.
   This custom of fried fish to take away is the very same as that of the
   Egyptians in Alexandria, which spread across the whole of North Africa
   and Moorish Spain of El Andalus.


“TERRITORY AND TRADITION” IT’S TALKED ABOUT, IT’S BOASTED ABOUT.

   This is perhaps the greatest misapprehension about street food: because
   it was born poor, from the  primary need to feed the populace cheaply,
   it has always been considered of little worth. However, particularly in
   these times of globalisation, street food is often the last bastion of
   a place’s traditions and identity. Consider the panino con la milza
   (bread with spleen) of Sicilian markets, or with lampredotto (tripe)
   sold at the last of the tripe stalls in Florence.  Pizza itself, the
   emblem of popular Italian cuisine, occupies the same role as the
   English pie, arising from the need to feed the poor in the streets. In
   this context, street food identifies and distinguishes territory and
   tradition, keeping alive one of the most important aspects of local
   culture, the eating habits of the people.

   In more recent times, we have seen an abundance of vehicles springing
   up near stadiums and concert venues, fairs and markets - vehicles
   specially adapted to sell drinks and sandwiches, classically with
   sausage or roast pork, the Italian version of American hot dogs and
   hamburgers, which themselves descended from the traditions of poor
   immigrants from Hamburg and Frankfurt.  Today’s street food culture is
   taking a markedly different route, focusing on the traditional cultural
   aspect - sometimes a rediscovery - and investing in the quality of
   increasingly refined products. Paradoxically, this trend for revival
   comes form the very place that invented junk food - the United States,
   where the trendiest food trucks are wildly popular among increasingly
   sophisticated foodies and related media.


“STREET FOOD IS THE TRUE TESTIMONY TO THE IDENTITY OF A PEOPLE”

   IThe manifesto of today’s Street Food could be “Street food is the true
   testimony to the identity of a people”. It undoubtedly gauges the depth
   of traditional food culture, but also measures its ability to
   continually reinvent itself in the constantly evolving everyday urban
   jungle, while retaining is roots firmly in the history of a region. In
   a nutshell, street food has freed itself from prejudice and reclaimed
   its rightful place in the sun as an expression of culinary
   civilisation.
   PRINT

   StreetFoody

   Via Poggilupi, 1692
   52028 Terranuova B.ni (AR)
   Tel. +39 055919431
   info@streetfoody.it
   www.streetfoody.it
     * StreetFoody
     * Gourmet on the road
     * Vehicles
     * Gallery
     * Rental
     * About us
     * Blog
     * Contacts

     * language:
     * Italian
     * English
     * German
     * French

   All Rights Reserved StreetFoody S.r.l. - sede legale: Firenze - via dei
   Caboto, 49 - P.I. e C.F. 06625930489 - PEC bir.srl@legalmail.it -
   Cookie Policy - Privacy Policy

   Project financed within the framework of POR FESR Toscana 2014/2020
   aimed to:
   1. sales and promotion of Made in ltaly food trucks abroad
   2. improve the digital, organizational and promotional efficiency of
   the company
   3. digitize production processes by streamlining them, sharing them,
   modifying the perception of the brand on the network and on social
   networks, also implementing the tools in terms of big data analysis
   POR CreO
