   #alternate alternate alternate

   abc of marketing logo
   ____________________
   Press Enter

   Navigation
   Search
     * Home
     * About
     * Contact
     * Disclaimer
     * Privacy Policy
     * Marketing Topics

   ____________________ Search

Consumer Preferences towards Western Origin Fast Foods in Urban India

   Home » Case Studies » Consumer Preferences towards Western Origin Fast
   Foods in Urban India
   Email This Post  Email This Post

   IFRAME:
   https://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.abcofm
   arketing.com%2Fconsumer-preferences-towards-western-origin-fast-foods-i
   n-urban-india%2F&layout=button_count&show_faces=false&width=85&action=l
   ike&font=verdana&colorscheme=light&height=21

   Consumer Preferences towards Western Origin Fast Foods in Urban India
   (Chandigarh City)

   INTRODUCTION AND RESEARCH OBJECTIVE
   1.1 Introduction:
   India is the world’s second largest producer of food next to China, and
   has the potential of being the biggest with the food and agricultural
   sector. The total food production in India is likely to double in the
   next ten years and there is an opportunity for large investments in
   food and food processing technologies, skills and equipment, especially
   in areas health food. Health food supplement is another rapidly rising
   segment of this industry that is gaining vast popularity amongst the
   health conscious.

   The revival of the tourism industry in 2003 resulted in a positive
   spillover effect into the consumer food service market^1 . India is one
   of the world’s major food producers but accounts for less than 1.5 per
   cent of international food trade. This indicates vast scope for both
   investors and exporters. The Indian food industries sales turnover is
   Rs.140,000 crore (1crore = 10 million) annually as at the start of year
   2000. The industry has the highest number of plants approved by the US
   Food and Drug Administration (FDA) outside the USA.

   The most promising sub-sectors include -Soft-drink bottling,
   Confectionery manufacture, Fishing, Aquaculture, Grain-milling and
   Grain-based products, Meat and poultry processing, Alcoholic beverages,
   Milk processing, Tomato paste, Fast food, Ready-to-eat breakfast
   cereals, Food additives, flavors etc^2

   The liberalization of the Indian economy and its resulting effects on
   consumer habits is leading to a higher incidence of eating out among
   the majority of consumers. This emerging trend is especially prevalent
   among middle class Indians, as dining out is increasingly perceived as
   a form of entertainment.

   Constant value sales within the FSR sector are registering a slight
   increase of 7% over the previous year. Major value shares in the market
   are largely held by Indian Multi-cuisine and south Indian restaurants,
   which dominate with an 84% share of total FSR value sales in 2003.
   Independent operators hold more than an almost 90% value share of the
   Fast food sector in India, offering a variety of menus catering to
   local tastes. Therefore, value shares held by Fast food sub sectors
   such as burger and chicken are comparatively low, and penetration is
   still limited.

   The euromonitor forecasts an overall positive performance over the
   forecast period, with a CAGR (compound annual growth rate) of 11.3% in
   terms of units, and forecast growth of 82.4% and 57.2% for transactions
   and constant value sales respectively. During the forecast period, fast
   food units will experience nearly 60% growth over 2003^3 .
   Advertisements
   [INS: :INS]

   The sizable Indian market has prompted many MNCs to set up shops in
   India. The few who have succeeded had come to understand that the
   Indian market is different due to its cultural diversity. Gaining local
   acceptance and blending in to the Indian culture still remains a
   challenge for many fast food restaurants. Most multinational-chained
   food service companies adopted the franchising route to set up
   operations and expanded their market presence, as opposed to direct
   investment or entering into joint ventures.

   Most international brands, such as Pizza Hut and McDonald’s, have
   revised their Western menus to suit the Indian pallet. This, along with
   aggressive marketing strategies such as offering discount coupons, has
   significantly boosted their business and increased sales.

   Every company has to adopt the principles of marketing for creating,
   promoting, pricing and delivering goods. Marketing managers are the key
   to creating product awareness, stimulating demand and meeting the
   objectives of the organization.

   1.2 Statement of Problem:
   Today’s consumer is empowered to choose between many vendors when
   considering a purchase. This is especially true where the market is
   limited and competitors fight fiercely for market share.

   In order to design effective product, promotion, pricing and
   distribution strategies, food marketers need to understand the
   attitudes, perceptions, experiences and behaviors of their consumers.
   However, currently there is limited information available about the
   food consumption behavior in urban India. Most of the people,
   especially the younger generation from villages migrate in lakhs, every
   year, towards towns in search of good jobs and better living. Unlike,
   western countries, in India predicting about the buying behavior of
   consumer’s remains a difficult task, especially because of the
   urban-rural divide and the constant migration of population from
   villages towards towns. Indian consumers typically maintain their
   distinct food habits even after migrating to different parts of the
   country.

   The researcher wishes to study, how consumers in Chandigarh perceive
   and utilize Western fast food offerings. Chandigarh is a Union
   Territory and the capital city of two states in North India (Punjab and
   Haryana).

   1.3 Project Scope And Research Objectives:
   The scope of the research project is focused on understanding consumer
   behavior of the residents of Chandigarh in respect of Western fast food
   offerings. The key research objective is-
     * To understand preferences of consumers in respect of Western Fast
       food offerings in Chandigarh, and identifying factors to be
       considered to encourage buying.

   The research will focus on how consumers in Chandigarh perceive and
   utilize Western fast food offerings in general as well as certain
   categories of it, not to identify how to successfully promote one
   specific brand.

   The results of this study must be as useful to the maker of Brand 1 in
   country A as they are to the distributors of Brand 2 from country B.
   The study gains importance from both the producer and consumer’s point
   of view, as it will identify drawbacks, limitations and constraints
   existing in the Fast food marketing structure.

   1.4 Key Research Questions Addressed in the Study:
     * Who are the consumers of these Western fast food offerings?
     * How do consumers in Chandigarh typically become acquainted with
       Western fast food offerings?
     * What are consumers looking for in Western fast food offerings?
     * What could be done to encourage purchasing of Western fast food
       offerings?

   1.5 Limitations of the Study:
     * The research project concerns a pilot project on a limited number
       of individual western fast food offerings only, which may be
       extended to an envisioned continuous annual research program. After
       preliminary discussions with the major Western fast food sellers in
       Chandigarh three product categories have been selected i.e.
       burgers, pizzas, and
     * The study has the limitation of time, finance and other resource
       availability associated with a student researcher.
     * Further, because of demographic variations the results of this
       study are mostly applicable to the regions and to locations with
       similar conditions.

   LITERATURE SURVEY
   2.1 Introduction to Literature Review:
   In order to provide a framework for the primary data research, first
   the key concepts about food consumption behavior have been set out.
   Next to that, information has been gathered on the background and
   determinants of food consumption behavior of Indians in general and in
   Chandigarh in particular, followed by an overview of the food market
   for Western fast food products.
   Advertisements
   [INS: :INS]
   2.2 Food consumption behavior
   The key objective of this research project is to learn more about local
   consumer preferences in Chandigarh in respect of Western fast food
   products, especially the way they perceive and utilize these products.
   In order to understand consumer preferences one needs to understand the
   elements that drive consumer behavior in the buying process.

   The buying process can be summarized as follows^4 :
   The starting point of each buying decision is that the potential
   consumer needs to be aware of the products involved i.e. Western fast
   food products. Once aware, the consumer will decide whether to buy a
   certain product or not, based on his/her beliefs and attitudes which
   determine his/her preferences for a certain product. A belief is a
   descriptive thought that a person holds about something or a
   perception, which can be based on knowledge, opinion or faith. An
   attitude describes someone’s enduring favorable or unfavorable
   cognitive evaluations, emotional feelings, and action tendencies toward
   some object or idea. Preferences are the selections that people make
   when all food products are equally and simultaneously available i.e.
   the final short-list of alternative products the consumer chooses from.
   Perceptions, attitudes and preferences are all part of food consumption
   behavior. Awareness is a necessary condition for consumption behavior
   to occur.

   Food consumption behavior is determined by underlying factors that
   drive this behavior. Literature shows different ways of looking at
   those driving factors, some of which are discussed below. One view
   considers the food consumption process to circle around two key
   elements, being the choice (decision to buy) and the actual purchase
   (exchange of resources) which are determined by factors as who buys,
   what to buy, frequency of purchases, types of foods which are eaten,
   who eats what, the time and occasion during which certain foods are
   consumed, the symbolic meaning of food, and attitudes toward foods.

   Figure 2.1 Consumer buying process:
   Figure 2.1 Consumer buying process:

   Others suggest that both cognitive and motivational factors must be
   considered when studying food consumption behavior. Cognitive factors
   are related to the question of how people think about food including
   attitudes and preferences, meal patterns (e.g., the food products that
   comprise a supper) and cultural availability^5.

   Motivational factors relate to what a person induces to act.
   Motivational factors include values, physical and social food needs,
   and obstacles to be overcome in buying and preparing food. For example,
   tofu has been discussed as a food product that has faced resistance in
   North America because the cooking skills required for using tofu are
   relatively time consuming and complicated by North American food
   preparation standards.

   Finally, another way of categorizing driving factors behind food
   consumption behavior is to distinguish between biological factors (such
   as age, gender, etc.), sociological factors (such as ethnicity,
   education, religion, traditions, etc.), household familial factors
   (such as food sharing behavior, purchasing power, etc.) and cognitive
   factors (such as body image, healthful foods, etc.).

   Recent studies of food consumption behavior of the people of India
   shows that India’s multiracial society with it’s large expatriate
   population drawn from all over has led to a diverse and rich variety of
   food types being available to consumers. Perceived important factors
   that has influenced the diversity in consumer tastes and preferences
   are:
     * Traditional Indian (local) culture
     * Religion
     * Newer trading relationships with North America, Japan, China and
       Europe
     * Urbanization
     * Free access to international media
     * Available local foodstuffs and ingredients
     * The scope of advertising and promotion
     * Government policy and campaigns on food and health related issues
     * Social status of consumers and purchase decision makers

   The first two categorizations discussed above have been used in
   gathering and analyzing information in the primary data research stage.
   The last categorization of factors discussed above has been used as a
   basis for gathering and analyzing information in the secondary data
   research phase. Moreover, when designing the standard questionnaires
   for the primary data research, specific relevant factors resulting from
   studies of the Indian food market have been kept in mind.

   2.3 Food Traditions in India:
   The role of tradition is particularly noteworthy when discussing food
   consumption behavior and the willingness to try unfamiliar foods, as it
   is often strongly linked with eating habits.

   In the mid 1990’s, a spate of global fast food chains entered India to
   capture a part of Indian fast food segment. But they found it difficult
   to establish themselves. Gaining acceptance locally and blending into
   the Indian culture proved difficult. With regards to their menu,
   positioning and advertising, MNC fast food chains had to face lot of
   problems in getting accepted by the Indian consumer. After initial
   problems they realized that it was important to combine the local
   tradition and food habits of the consumers, with their products.
   Although few players were able to form pan-Indian retail supply chains,
   the retail market is unlikely to be a single entity. For example, food
   retailing in Chennai, Kolkata and Chandigarh is vastly different in
   terms of shopping habits and consumer tastes. Many such differences
   will remain^6.

   With more than five thousand ethnic communities represented, India has
   a very diverse population. Each region and sub region in India has
   distinct food traditions and preferences. Indian consumers typically
   maintain their distinct food habits even after migrating to different
   parts of the country. In large cities and metropolitan areas, some
   restaurants serve only specialty regional foods. Some regional fast
   foods such as samosa, kababs, chola bhatura, pakoda, aloo-paratha,
   poori-bhaji, dosa, and sambarvada are popular among Indian consumers
   and are available in both specialty and multi-cuisine restaurants
   throughout India.

   Most Indians prefer to eat home-cooked foods and take immense pride in
   the varieties of food cooked at home. For most Indians, home-cooked
   foods are considered fresh, healthy, and inexpensive. Given the
   distinct dietary habits and food preference of Indian consumers, it is
   not surprising that until the early 1990s Western fast food chains had
   largely ignored Indian markets. As a result, Nirula’s, the only notable
   Indian fast food chain, has been able to dominate the Indian market in
   fast food service sales^7.

   In an interview, Vikram Bakshi, MD, McDonald’s Delhi, said that even
   though the Indian outfit stuck to its core taste that grew on consumers
   from ‘bland’ to ‘unique’ in three years, with no change factored in by
   the fast food chain, McDonald’s menu still was about 75% different from
   its global menu^8.

   Similarly, Gautam Advani, Chief of Marketing, Domino’s Pizza, in an
   interview said, “the Indian palate is very definitive- people are
   extremely finicky and choosy, not too willing to experiment. Food
   tastes vary from region to region.”

   The Indian cuisine is as diverse as its culture, languages, its racial
   structure, its geographic regions and its climate. Every major region
   of India brings its own unique dishes and subtle variations to popular
   dishes. The skill lies in the subtle blending of a variety of spices to
   enhance rather than overwhelm the basic flavor of a particular dish.
   These spices are also used as appetizers and digestives. Use of
   particular spices such as Coriander, Cumin, Fenugreek, Asafetida, etc.,
   give Indian foods its distinct flavor. The cooking skill lies in the
   subtle blending of a variety of spices to enhance the basic flavor of a
   particular dish.

   Milk products like ghee (processed butter) and dahi (Yogurt), a variety
   of dals (Lentils) and regional vegetables are other common ingredients
   in Indian cooking. Vegetables naturally differ across regions and with
   seasons. The style of cooking vegetables is dependent upon the main
   dish with which they are served. For example Sarson ka saag (mustard
   greens) is a perfect complement for the Makke ki Roti (corn flat bread)
   eaten in Punjab, while sambhar (lentil soup) goes great with Idlis
   (steamed rice cakes) eaten in South India.
   Most of the Indian cuisine today is a perfect blend of native Hindu
   foods and unique culinary practices brought by various settlers.
   Although a number of religions exist in India, the two most influential
   to Indian cuisine are the Hindu and the Muslim traditions.

   The Muslim culinary tradition is most evident in dishes like Mughlai
   food, kababs, Kormas, koftas (meat-balls), biryani (rice with meats),
   rogan josh, and preparations from the clay oven or tandoor like
   tandoori rotis and tandoori chicken.

   Chapatis or rotis (unleavened flat bread) or parathas (unleavened
   layered flat bread), rice and an assortment of accessories like dals,
   fried vegetables, curries, chutney, and pickles are typical north
   Indian dishes.

   South Indian food is largely non-greasy, roasted and steamed. Rice is
   the staple diet and forms the basis of every meal. It is usually served
   with sambhar, rasam (a thin soup), dry and curried vegetables and a
   curd preparation called pachadi. Coconut is an important ingredient in
   all South Indian food. The South Indian dosa (rice pancakes), idli
   (steamed rice cakes) and vada, which are made of fermented rice and
   dal, are now popular throughout the country. The popular dishes from
   Kerala are appams (a rice pancake) and thick stews.

   Most of the sweetmeats in Indian desserts are from Bengal region e.g.
   rasagulla, jalebi, sandesh, rasamalai and gulab-jamuns. A majority of
   sweetmeats are milk preparations usually soaked in syrup. Kheer (rice
   pudding) and Seviyan (Vermicelli pudding) are other common northern
   desserts. Desserts from the south include the Mysore pak and the creamy
   payasum.

   North Indian food is generally rich, with abundant use of milk products
   (e.g. butter, cream, ghee which is processed butter.), spices as
   compared to other parts of India. As Chandigarh is the capital of two
   states viz- Punjab and Haryana, food traditions in Chandigarh have
   greater influence of these two states. 98% of the North Indian diet has
   traditionally been of plant origin. Mutton, poultry, fish are generally
   well liked. Wheat in the form of bread, pastries are more common in
   North India as compared to other parts of India where products made of
   rice are dominant.

   Contrary to popular belief, however, India is not a predominantly
   vegetarian country. About 20% of India’s population is completely
   vegetarian. A closer look at state-level food habits in India reveals
   that food preferences vary widely among the country’s 30 states and six
   union territories^9.

   While part of this vegetarianism is economic, a more compelling force
   is ethical and even religious. Jains avoid meat totally, while many
   Buddhists in India are vegetarian. Brahmins, ‘Saivite’ non-Brahmins of
   South India and several ‘Vaishnavite’ sects across the country avoid
   meat. Interestingly, though, Brahmins of East India, Kashmir, and the
   ‘Saraswats’ of the southwest eat fish and mutton. But even among
   meat-eaters, beef is taboo^10.

   2.4 Fast Food in India:
   The concept of fast food isn’t new. Early in the 19th century, at the
   start of the Industrial Age when people had to work 12 to 14 hours a
   day, there was scarcely any time for long breaks for eating. The first
   snack bars and kiosks arose in front of factories. Today, quick meals
   outside the home have become an essential part of our lifestyle.

   2.4.1 Introduction to Fast food:
   The term “fast food” means just that. However, the boundary between
   fast foods and traditional dishes is fluid. In particular, it’s
   difficult to provide a qualitative distinction. Fast foods can also
   include salads and fruit in addition to classic offerings such as
   hamburgers, hot dogs, sandwiches, patties, French-fries, pizzas, chips
   and so on. The best way to distinguish fast foods is to use formal
   characteristics:

   Time required^10a – those who eat fast foods do not want to spend a lot
   of time selecting and eating, and if necessary will eat standing or
   walking, on the bus, park bench, or at work. The variety of foods and
   beverages is usually very limited. Fast food frequently does not come
   with knives and forks, making it “finger food.” When silverware, cups
   and plates are necessary, they are disposable.

   The characteristics of fast food, therefore, are that they require
   little time, offer a limited selection, are finger food, and the
   silverware and plates are disposable. These characteristics readily
   illustrate the difference from traditional dining culture. Many people
   equate fast foods with convenience foods. This is incorrect since
   convenience products are often eaten at home. They require active
   participation because they must be heated, stirred, baked, thawed,
   etc., and are supplemented with other foods.

   There are three general categories of fast food businesses:
   1. Self-service restaurants with a fast-food palette like McDonalds,
   Wendy’s, Burger King, Pizza Hut, etc.

   2. Take-out (or take-away) businesses that sell ready-to-eat foods and
   beverages.

   3.”On the street corner” hot-dog stands and snack stands with counters
   or a pair of stand-up tables.

   2.4.2 Fast food Industry Overview:
   Fast food is a food prepared and served quickly at a fast food
   restaurant or a shop. It is served usually in a carton or bags in order
   to minimize cost. Fast food outlets often provide take away or take out
   foods in addition to sit down services. Fast food is a multi billion
   industry continuing to grow at a rapid pace in coming years.

   Fast food is often highly processed and prepared in an industrial
   fashion i.e., with standard ingredients, methodical cooking and
   production methods. Logistical planning and outsourcing of ingredients
   are crucial factors in keeping the cost of operations low.
   Advertisements
   [INS: :INS]
   2.4.3 The Start of Fast food Culture:
   The concept of fast food pops up during 1920s.The 1950s first witnessed
   their rapid proliferation. Several factors that contributed to this
   explosive growth in 50’s were:

   (1) America’s love affair with the automobiles.
   (2) The construction of a major new highway system.
   (3) The development of sub-urban communities.
   (4) The baby boom subsequent to world war second.

   “Fast-food chains initially catered to automobile owners in suburbia.
   The notion of “fast” food reflected American culture in which speed and
   efficiency are highly prized ^11.”

   2.5 India – Emerging Market for Global Players:
   Organized food retailing industry is still at infancy stage with share
   less than 1% of food retail market size in India (See Appendix-IV, pg-
   115; Comparison of Organized and Unorganized fast food Outlets). The
   percentage share held by food service of total consumer expenditure on
   food has increased from a very low base to stand at 2.6% in 2001.
   Eating at home remains very much ingrained in Indian culture and
   changes in eating habits are very slow moving with barriers to eating
   out entrenched in certain sectors of Indian society.

   Traditionally, eating out was looked down upon in Indian society. The
   growth in nuclear families, particularly in urban India, exposure to
   global media and Western cuisine, and an increasing number of women
   joining the workforce have had an impact on eating out trends.
   Increasingly, eating out is becoming synonymous with entertainment. And
   very often, it is preferred as a time saving option to cooking. Not
   surprisingly, takeaways are becoming increasingly popular. India is
   among the top three countries globally having highest number of people
   in the spending capacities in the age group of 25-49 yrs.

   India is placed at the second rank in the 2004 global retail
   development index; an annual ranking of retail investment
   attractiveness among 30 emerging markets. The lack of consolidation and
   model retail concepts in India presents better opportunity to global
   players. Over 400 shopping malls, multiplexes, fast food giants,
   restaurants etc. are in planning or construction stage across the
   country^12.

   2.5.1 Market Size & Major Players:
   Fast food is one of the worlds largest growing food type. India’s fast
   food industry is growing by 40% a year and is expected to generate a
   billion dollars in sales by 2005. The multinational segment of Indian
   fast food industry is up to Rs.6 bn, a figure expected to zoom to Rs.70
   bn by 2006. By 2006, the value of Indian dairy products is expected to
   be Rs.1, 00,000 million. In last 6 years, foreign investment in this
   sector stood at Rs. 3600 million, which is about one-fourth of total
   investment made in this sector. Because of the availability of raw
   material for fast food, Global chains are flooding into the country^13.

   There are approximately 22,000 registered restaurants in India. In
   addition, there are more than 100,000 dhabas (small roadside food
   stalls) that sell a variety of foods in cities and on highways. By
   1998, there were approximately 1,568 registered hotels in India, half
   of which have their own restaurants^14. In addition, large to
   medium-range canteens serve the food needs of various institutions such
   as hospitals, prisons, defense establishments, schools, colleges and
   universities, railways, airlines, government establishments, and
   private companies. Since 1994, India’s food imports have been growing
   more than 37% per year. Half of India’s food imports are agricultural
   items such as cereals, vegetables, fruits, wheat, and nuts. One of the
   significant problems of the Indian food industry is an inefficient food
   chain between farmers and consumers.

   About 20% of India’s food production is wasted because of too many
   intermediaries, poor infrastructure, and poor transportation
   facilities. Considerable inefficiency in the food distribution system
   cuts farmers’ income while raising consumer food prices. Although India
   is the world’s third largest food producer, its processing industry is
   very small compared to other countries in Asia, Europe, and the United
   States. Despite the lack of a well-developed food processing industry,
   India’s imports of processed consumer foods have traditionally remained
   low. Since the early 1990s, India’s food service sales have
   significantly increased. India’s processed and fast food markets have
   shown considerable potential for growth^15

   Dominated by McDonalds having as many as 75 outlets. Domino’s pizza is
   present in around 100 locations. Pizza hut is also catching up and it
   has planned to establish 125 outlets at the end of 2006. Subways have
   established around 40 outlets. Nirula’s is established in North India
   only. However, it claims to cater 50,000 guests everyday.

   Major players in fast food are:
     * McDonalds
     * Nirula’s
     * Pizza hut
     * Dominos pizza
     * Pizza corner
     * KFC
     * Subway

   Multinational fast food companies have given domestic competition a run
   for its money. While McDonalds sells more than Nirula’s, Pizza Hut and
   Dominos are doing more business than Pizza Corner. Within nine years of
   their existence in India since 1996, the multinationals have grown at a
   faster pace than their Indian counterparts. According to industry
   estimates, in 2001, while McDonald’s clocked a turnover of about Rs 125
   crore (Rs 1.25 billion), the home-grown Nirula’s, which has been
   present in the country since 1934, could only garner Rs 100 crore (Rs 1
   billion) turnover. Also, both Domino’s Pizza Hut and Dominos clocked a
   turnover of about Rs 60 crore (Rs 600 million) but Pizza Corner lagged
   behind with a turnover of Rs. 25-30 crore (Rs. 250- 300 million).

   The main reason behind the success of the multinational chains is their
   expertise in product development, sourcing practices, quality
   standards, service levels and standardized operating procedures in
   their restaurants, a strength that they have developed over years of
   experience around the world. The homegrown chains have in the past few
   years of competition with the MNC’s, learnt a few things but there is
   still a lot of scope for improvement. We have applied our learning
   experience from other countries in all the processes including
   consistency, marketing, distribution and training to the local market
   conditions. It’s now that the domestic chains have realized the
   importance of such practices. Nirula’s is thus beefing up its
   organizational structure. Another key reason behind the success of
   multinationals is the ability to attract youngsters. While McDonalds
   has been able to attract people below 30, Dominos is targeting the
   ‘convenience-seeker.’

   Nirula’s, on the other hand, is known to appeal more to the 30-plus
   consumers. Small wonder, Nirula’s has launched its ’21’ range if ice
   cream cafes to attract the younger lot. The challenge for the homegrown
   chains is also to reinvent themselves to appeal to the younger
   consumers. However, the domestic chains are at an advantage since they
   understand the Indian consumer behavior and eating habits and their
   product offerings have been tailored accordingly. Multinational chains
   like McDonalds and Pizza Hut are still on a learning curve trying to
   customize their menu to the Indian taste and food preferences. Pizza
   Hut, for example, launched its ‘masala’ range of pizzas and also opened
   the world’s first 100 percent vegetarian outlet in India. Domino, on
   the other hand, has launched its ‘peppy paneer pizza’ keeping in mind
   the Indian taste buds. The food service market in India is estimated to
   be around Rs.36, 000 crore (Rs. 360 billion), of which the urban fast
   food quick service restaurants is around Rs. 1, 000 crore (Rs10
   billion)^16. This segment is witnessing high growth of around 25-30 per
   cent per annum so the market has a lot of potential to grow.

   The Global Agriculture Information Report for the HRI food service
   sector by the US Embassy (2005) states that there are approximately
   500, 000 restaurants in the organized sector (restaurants with more
   than twenty seats and restaurant menu), mostly serving ethnic cuisines;
   this number is expected to grow at about 7-8 percent annually for next
   few years because of increasing urbanization and increasing disposable
   incomes.

   After a slow start, Western-style fast food restaurants have grown
   impressively at 12-15 percent annually over recent years. Most foreign
   chains (McDonald’s, Dominos, Pizza Hut, Subway, KFC, and TGIF) and
   local chains (Nirula’s and Pizza Corner) are doing well in major
   cities, and are expanding into smaller cities. Most of these fast food
   chains have developed a range of Indian-styled products to suit local
   preferences (such as the Maharaja chicken burger, veggie burger, etc.).
   Although these chains procure most of their products locally, several
   products such as French fries, specialty cheese, some meats/seafood,
   flavors, condiments, and other ingredients are often imported.

   Table 2.1: Profile of Restaurant Chains in India:
   NAME OF THE CHAIN CURRENT NO. OF UNITS TYPE OWNERSHIP TYPE PURCHASING
   AGENT
   McDonalds 68 Fastfood Two regional franchisees Direct Imports and
   Importers
   Pizza Hut 100 Fastfood A master franchisee operating outlets through
   sub-franchisees Direct Imports, Consolidators, and Importers
   Pizza Corner 30 Fastfood Indian company operating through
   sub-franchisees Importers and Distributors
   Dominos Pizza Approx 96 Fastfood A master franchisee operating outlets
   through sub-franchisees Information not available
   Subway 42 Fastfood Franchisee operating outlets through sub-franchisees
   Importers and Distributors
   KFC 7 Fastfood Franchisee operating outlets through sub-franchisees
   Consolidators and Importers
   TGI Friday’s 5 Casual Dining All-India franchisee Consolidators and
   Importers
   Nirulas 63 Fastfood/Casual Dining Indian company with few franchisees
   Importers and Distributors
   Barista Coffee 105 Coffee Shop (serves baked goods and sandwiches, too)
   Indian company owned Importers and Distributors
   Café Coffee Day 230 Coffee Shop Indian company owned Importers and
   Distributors
   Kwality Group 14 Quick service/ casual Dining Family owned Importers
   and Distributors

   Source- GAIN report no IN5066; Global Agriculture Information Report,
   HRI food service sector; Annual 2005; US Embassy 2005.

   2.7. Factors Affecting the Fast Food Industry in India:
   Income distribution: The long-term growth trend in India is improving.
   The past three decades have seen a steady acceleration. Average annual
   growth in GDP per head climbed from 1.2% in the 1970s to 3% in the
   1980s and 4% in the 1990s. From 1972 to 1982, GDP growth averaged 3.5%
   a year—the so-called “Hindu rate of growth.” As a result of India’s
   decade-long liberalization of economic policies, the growth rate
   climbed to 6% from 1992-2002 and is likely to reach 7% by 2010^22. If
   this rate is maintained, GDP per person will double in only 18 years.
   However, high GDP growth is confined to only the few states with
   coastal access and high levels of urbanization. The fastest-growing
   Indian states in 1991-2001 were Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, West
   Bengal, and Gujrat. These states enjoyed annual average economic growth
   of 6-8%, which is comparable to East Asian economies during the same
   period. But the economies of poor states like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh,
   Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, and Assam grew by a dismal annual average of 2%
   over the same period^23.

   Not surprisingly, income distribution is highly skewed in India. Just
   20% of the richest Indians share more than 40% of the national income.
   According to a study by National Applied Economic Research (2004)^ 22,
   the number of households with an annual income over Indian Rupees (Rs.)
   1 crore (US $228,351) has grown by 26% since 1995-96 to 20, 000 in
   2001-02. By 2009-10, it will increase more than seven times to 1,40,000
   households. In the Rs. 50 lakh (US $114,180) to Rs. 1 crore (US $228,
   351) bracket, the number of households is expected to increase from
   40,000 in 2001-02 to over 250,000 in 2009-10. In the 11 years following
   1989-90, the total number of households increased by 32%, although the
   average size of Indian households has declined from 5.9 people per
   household in 1990 to 5.2 in 2001. What is important is that the number
   of low-income urban households has been approximately halved, from 14.9
   million households in 1989-90 to 7.6 million in 2001-02.

   The number of low-income rural households has also declined from 69
   million in 1989-90 to 58 million in 2001-02. The growth in incomes in
   the top band has been experienced by both urban and rural households,
   both of which have roughly doubled as a share of the total population
   over the 1990s^24. The members of these households have higher
   disposable income and have shown greater propensity to spend on fast
   foods. There is continuous increase in the per capita income of the
   Indian citizens. More income in hand results into more spending in
   comforts and entertainment and thus results into more and more spending
   on fast and ready to serve kind of foods.

   Economic liberalization: With economic liberalization of 1991, more
   foreign and private industries entered the Indian market that result
   into income generation of the Indian residents. More income resulted
   into more savings, more savings resulted into more investment, and more
   investment resulted into the overall growth of the economy.

   Large Population Growth and Urbanization: According to the 2001 census,
   India’s population grew at a rate of around 2% a year during the
   previous decade. This was a marked decline from earlier decades of
   population growth of around 3% annually. Nevertheless, India added 181
   million people between 1990-2001, more than the total population of
   Brazil^25.

   According to the forecast of Goldman Sachs (an American investment
   bank), the reason why India is expected to outperform Brazil, Russia,
   and China, as well as the “rich world” (i.e., United States, Canada,
   France, Germany, United Kingdom), is that it is the only country where
   the population will continue to grow for the next 50 years and where
   the proportion of working-age people will increase well into the
   2020s^26. The percentage of urban population in India has increased
   from 21% in 1975 to more than 28% in 2004. It is likely to increase to
   36% in 2025^27.

   Most high-income Indians prefer to live in urban areas. Over 70% of
   affluent urban Indian consumers live in the ten most populated and
   cosmopolitan cities in India: Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Pune, Chennai,
   Hyderabad, Bangalore, Ahmedabad, Ludhiana, and Nagpur. The number of
   dual income households, where both husband and wife work, is slowly
   increasing in urban areas. Like their husbands, full-time working-women
   spend most of their time away from home. As a result, there has been a
   dramatic change in the way Indian working wives shop and organize
   family meals. Packaged rice, prepared yoghurt, packets of flour, frozen
   chickens, and marinated mutton (goat or lamb meat) are fast replacing
   curdling, grinding, and handling of market-bought fowls and haunches of
   mutton. Not surprisingly, even some Indian consumers have started
   opting for meals away from home on working days.

   The growing popularity of Delhi’s Waiters on Wheels (WOW), a supply
   agency delivering meals to people’s doorsteps from 30 different
   restaurants at the same price as one would pay in the restaurants, is
   an example of India’s changing food service landscape^28. High income
   and growing urbanization have also contributed to a shift in the
   traditional Indian food habits. High-income urban dwellers are seeking
   variety in their choice of foods and are willing to spend more on
   international cuisine, including fast foods. Consequently, a growing
   number of domestic fast food outlets, home delivery, take-away
   restaurants, and American restaurant chains, such as Kentucky Fried
   Chicken (KFC), TGI Friday’s, Domino’s Pizza, Pizza Hut, McDonald’s, and
   Baskin Robbins, have opened in the last few years. India being a second
   largest country in terms of population possesses large potential market
   for all the products/services. This results into entry of large number
   of fast food players in the country.

   Relaxation in rules and regulations: With the economic liberalization
   of 1991, most of the tariff and non-tariff barriers from the Indian
   boundaries are either removed or minimized. This helped significantly
   the MNC’s to enter in the country.

   Growth in number of women’s in the work force: There is increase in the
   number of women work force in the recent years because of the
   improvement in the literacy rate and also because of the large number
   of jobs now available because of the entry of foreign and private
   players in the Indian market.

   Menu diversification: Increase in consumption of pizzas, burgers,
   sandwiches and other type of fast foods.

   2.8 Problems of Fast Food Industry in India:
   Environmental friendly products cost high: Government is legislating
   laws in order to keep check on the fast food industry and it is
   emphasizing more on the usage of biodegradable and environment friendly
   products. But associated with this issue is the problem that fast food
   player faces, which is the cost, associated with the environment
   friendly product. They cost much higher then the normal products that
   companies use for packaging or wrapping their products.

   Balance between societal expectation and company’s economic objectives:
   It becomes important to balance a society’s expectation regarding
   environment with the economic burden of protecting the environment.
   Thus, one can see that one side pushes for higher standards and other
   side tries to beat the standard back, thereby making it an arm
   wrestling and mind-boggling exercise.
   Health related issues (obesity): Studies have shown that a typical fast
   food has very high density and food with high density causes people to
   eat more than they usually need. Changes in diet coupled with
   stress-filled lives and more sedentary modern existences are beginning
   to take their toll on the consumers’ health. Basic nutrition is simple,
   yet there is mass confusion about what to eat and what effects a
   particular food has, and the reason for all of this misinformation is
   that it benefits food producers to have an innocent flock of customers
   who are left uncertain of how to judge what is healthy and what is not.

   A recent article^29states that India is becoming a nation of obese,
   increasingly exposed to various food hazards, largely thanks to the
   lies and evil ways of large corporations that will stop at nothing to
   increase their profits. There is an excessive consumption of pizzas,
   noodles, ice-creams, beef/ham/cheese burgers, which constitute the
   universally available fast food. These constitute junk food having
   empty calories, which means this kind of food contains the calories
   that are not particularly helpful to one’s body. These days there is an
   emphasis on taste rather than nutrition. Convenience foods are
   manufactured commercially and on a large scale, and consequently are
   low in nutrition. The result is that 25 per cent of males and 36 per
   cent females above the age of 20 years are overweight.

   Obesity was earlier the problem of the developed countries, but now
   even the developing countries are facing the threat. Technology has
   made it easy to follow sedentary life styles, which must be avoided at
   any cost.

   Green Sensitivity: In India, there is a vocal group of environmental
   and animal activists who oppose the entry of fast-food chains like KFC
   and McDonald’s. Maneka Gandhi, former environment minister in the
   central government, and Dr. Vandana Shiva, Director of the Research
   Foundation for Science, Technology and Ecology, are the prominent
   leaders of this group. According to this group’s campaign, junk food
   chains like McDonald’s and KFC destroy ecological balance and cause
   severe behavioral disorders because of their fatty and unhealthy foods,
   which have excessive levels of monosodium glutamate (MSG). Besides,
   they also campaign that these food chains are anti-poor and cater only
   to the rich segment of the Indian society.

   2.9 Conclusion:
   Multinationals in India often wonder why their marketing plans often
   come unstuck. The answer usually given is: “India is different’.
   Serious inquiry begins when we ask how Indian consumers are different.
   It is observed the success of fast foods arose from the changes in our
   living conditions:
     * Many women or both parents now work
     * There are increased numbers of single-parent households
     * Long distances to school and work are common
     * Usually, lunch times are short

   There’s often not enough time or opportunity to shop carefully for
   groceries, or to cook and eat with one’s family. Especially on
   weekdays, fast food outside the home is the only solution. Today, only
   40% of young college-age people eat lunch at home. Mostly teenagers and
   young adults use fast food facilities when there is shortage of time.
   According to studies, 66% of young men and 33% of women in Switzerland
   eat one to two hamburgers a week, and half the teenagers eat
   French-fries once a week. The large chains have pulled out all the
   stops of modern marketing, targeting primarily young consumers. They
   entice their potential customers with TV spots, children’s parties,
   gifts for small children, and an ambiance that is generally child- and
   teenager friendly. Large distributors, bakers and butchers, snack bars,
   and so on, also exploit the fast food trend and offer more take-out
   products.

   It’s obvious that these campaigns are at the expense of traditional
   home dining culture. Experts have coined the term “McDonaldization” to
   describe this phenomenon.

   Some noticeable facts about fast food industry are: Fast food had
   experienced fast growth in past decade. Changing lifestyles, breakdown
   of joint family system, increasing number of working women’s and
   western influence in urban areas are fuelling the demand for fast food.

   India already has the entire requirement for a head start in Fast food
   industry. Basic materials such as food, vegetables and meat can be
   sourced locally or easily imported if local availability is not
   adequate.

   Food outlets are just beginning to appear in India’s big cities and
   this is a time for international chains to set a foothold. There will
   be increase in competition in the near future. Studies indicate that
   the highest percentage increase in units can be expected in the
   unorganized street stalls/kiosks sector. The one who will better
   understand and get closer to its target customer will win the game.

   RESEARCH METHODOLOGY
   3.1 Introduction to Research Methodology:
   The present research is based on both secondary and primary data
   collection. Since the topic encourages facile projections and
   speculations for the future, the study has attempted to quote hard data
   in order to support viewpoints. In case where qualitative data and
   opinions have been used the researcher has made sure to present
   differing perspectives before coming to a conclusion.

   3.2 Sources of Data:
   The project work has been carried out in two phases:
     * First phase involved the process of secondary data collection that
       was done by studying issue related books, journals, articles and
       company reports.
     * Based on the results of the first stage the second stage involved
       the process of primary data collection through the questionnaire
       method. The standard questionnaire covered the awareness, attitude
       and behavior towards western fast food products in general and
       three selected product categories in particular.

   3.3 Data Gathering, Processing and Analysis:
   3.3.1 Secondary Data:
   Secondary data has been collected from company reports, websites, and
   literature and company statistics. A full list of sources has been
   included in the Annexure. An in-depth analysis of a number of case
   studies and reports has been carried out based on the secondary data
   available from these sources

   3.3.2 Primary data:
   Primary data was collected from a selected sample of respondents
   following the Simple Random Method. Responses were scaled according
   various variables and clusters were formed to come to the findings,
   discussion and conclusion of the research. The sample comprises of 115
   consumers, selected at random. In this stage consumers were interviewed
   near fast food restaurants and information was gathered about their
   awareness, attitudes and preferences towards western fast food
   offerings.

   To make sure that the sample represented the entire Western fast food
   consuming population in the city of Chandigarh, the sample has been
   selected on ‘sector’ wise basis. The city is divided according to
   ‘sectors’ and fast food outlets were selected such that the sample
   represented the entire population of Chandigarh. A full list of the
   fast food outlets has been given in the Appendix to this research.
   The interpretation and analysis, which comprises of both quantitative
   and qualitative nature, is based on both the secondary and primary
   data, and may therefore be considered to be of a more subjective
   nature.

   The variables selected for consideration in the analysis are based on
   various factors of the consumers in the town such as demographic
   factors like age, household income, occupation, psychographic factors
   such as attitudes and beliefs of the consumers towards Western fast
   food offerings, behavioral factors such as brand loyalty, price
   sensitivity, frequency of purchase and so on.

   Once the initial variable list was developed, an analysis of the
   percentage response for each variable was undertaken to find out the
   differences in each variable in the responses from the consumers.

   3.4 Location of the Study: Chandigarh
   Chandigarh is a very modern town, in the northern part of India that is
   considered as one of the beautiful cities in Asia. It is designed for
   50 ‘sectors’ with the exception of the unlucky number 13! Each sector
   is a self-complete block about a Kilometer in length by 0.8Km width.

   The Map shows the location of Chandigarh in India.
   the location of Chandigarh

   LOCATION OF STUDY: Map of Chandigarh
   LOCATION OF STUDY - Map of Chandigarh

   3.5 Trends in the Indian Market:

   Marketing to children’s: Fast food outlets in India target children’s
   as their major customers. They introduce varieties of things that will
   attract the children’s attention and by targeting children’s they
   automatically target their parents because their parents always
   accompany children’s.

   Low level customer commitment: Because of the large number of food
   retail outlets and also because of the tendency of customers to switch
   from one product to other (as food is one area, where customer wants to
   try everything new that comes to the market), this industry faces low
   level customer commitment.

   Value added technology services: There is continuous improvement in the
   technology as far as fast food market in India is considered. The
   reason behind that is food is a perishable item and in order to ensure
   that it remains fresh for a longer period of time, there is a need for
   continuous up gradation in technology. Earlier, Indian people preferred
   eating at home but now with the change in trend there is also need for
   improvement and up gradation of technology in food sector.

   Attracting different segments of the market: Fast food outlets are
   introducing varieties of products in order to cater the demands of each
   and every segment of the market. They are introducing all categories of
   product so that people of all age, sex, class, income group etc can
   come and become a customer of their food line.

   3.6 Challenges for the Fast Food Industry in India:
   Social and cultural implications of Indians switching to western
   breakfast food: Generally, Hindus avoid all foods that are believed to
   inhibit physical and spiritual development. Eating meat is not
   explicitly prohibited, but many Hindus are vegetarian because they
   adhere to the concept of ahimsa. Those seeking spiritual unity may
   avoid garlic and onions. The concept of purity influences Hindu food
   practices. Products from cows (e.g., milk, yogurt, ghee-clarified
   butter) are considered pure. Pure foods can improve the purity of
   impure foods when they are prepared together. Some foods, such as beef
   or alcohol, are innately polluted and can never be made pure. But now,
   Indians are switching to fast food that contain all those things that
   are considered impure or against there beliefs. Some traditional and
   fundamentalist are against this transformation of food habit and number
   of times they provoke their counterparts to revolt against such foods.
   And that is what happened when McDonald’s decided to enter the
   complexity of Indian business landscape, counting only on its “fast
   food global formula”, without any apparent previous cultural
   training^29.

   Positioning for the selected segments: Positioning is an integral part
   of strategy for a new service provider. Once the target segment or
   market is clear, the service marketer has to position itself
   appropriately for its target segment. Even in case of a mature
   business, a service marketer needs to reaffirm its positioning in the
   minds of target customers. At times, a subtle shift in positioning may
   also be necessary to keep up with the changing consumer preferences or
   to cope with the challenges from the competitors.

   Briefly, the positioning is a mental image or picture that a service
   provider would like to have about itself in the consumers mind. It is a
   deliberate attempt at building an identity of a certain kind for the
   service. For example, McDonald’s in India has a slightly up market
   image than in the US, where it is viewed as cheap American fast food.
   Since a hamburger is an everyday item of American food, it made sense
   for McDonald’s to develop the positioning. In India that slot is
   already occupied by a variety of Indian alternatives. For example, the
   idli-dosa corner food joints in the south, the parantha serving stalls
   in the north, or the tea and samosa corners of Kolkata. Therefore the
   mind space that most of the organized fast food restaurants had tried
   to occupy is of two types- One, the affluent westernized teenager and,
   Second, the modern, upscale family which is possibly driven by children
   who enjoy the feeling of eating outside their household. Positioning
   has lot to do with the target segment to which we chose to market, and
   has elements like price, packaging, communication and ambience, which
   reinforces the positioning, attempted by a company.

   Emphasis on the usage of biodegradable products: Glasses, silverware,
   plates and cloth napkins are never provided with fast food. Instead,
   paper plates and napkins, polyurethane containers, plastic cups and
   tableware, drinking cartons or PET (polyethylene terephthalate) bottles
   are used, and these are all disposable. Many of these items are tossed
   in the garbage instead of being recycled, or even worse, merely thrown
   on the ground. This burdens nature unnecessarily and squanders raw
   materials. In order to reduce soil and water pollution, government now
   emphasizes more on the usage of biodegradable products.

   Retrenchment of employees: Most of new industries will be capital
   intensive and may drive local competitors, which have more workers, out
   of business.

   Profit repatriation: Repatriation of profits is another area of concern
   for Indian economy. As when multinational enters any country, people
   and government hope that it will increase the employment rate and
   result in economic growth. However, with the multinational operation,
   host country experiences these benefits for a short time period. In
   long run neither employment increases (because of capital intensive
   nature of MNC’s) nor it increases the GDP or GNP because whatever MNC’s
   earn they repatriate that profit back to their home country.

   DATA ANALYSIS
   4. Consumer Analysis:
   Based on the results of the secondary data collection 115 interviews
   were carried out to quantify the awareness, attitudes and behavior
   towards western fast food products in the city of Chandigarh on the
   basis of a questionnaire. The questionnaire included questions on
   western fast food in general and three selected product categories in
   particular.
   Advertisements
   [INS: :INS]
   4.6 Key Findings:
   4.6.1 Factors influencing product choice:
   In this section the main factors that influence choice (decision to
   buy) and purchase (exchange of resources) of Western food products are
   described based on the results of the response from the consumers.

   Who buys:
   Most selected buyers have the influence of commercial and personal
   sources as to how they became acquainted with Western food products.
   Housewives and elderly buyers tend to be more price sensitive as they
   have limited budget and time to make a purchase. Participants with
   children tend to spend more money on fast foods, and they perceive the
   products are convenient/easy to eat, less time consuming, fresh,
   suitable when socializing, having nicer and strong packaging, and are
   competitively priced compared to local products.

   Most of the participants preferred to shop at organized fast food
   restaurants rather than in street stalls for the following reasons:
     * Shop premises is spacious and clean
     * Good sales service
     * Near to their work place
     * A wide selection of food choices
     * Safe to eat
     * Fresh ingredients used

   But, they also find the Western fast food offerings more expensive as
   compared to local fast food offerings. Older consumers prefer local
   fast food restaurants as compared to Western fast food restaurants. The
   most important reason being that Western fast food restaurants are
   often crowded with youngsters, and they prefer visiting restaurants
   where there is no self-service.

   What to buy:
   Half of the participants are most likely to purchase products, which
   can be consumed as a snack. Fresh offerings are mentioned as items that
   participants are likely to purchase because these food products are
   perceived as clean and hygienic. Beverages are most often mentioned in
   combination with Western fast food items. Most of the participants are
   likely to purchase products that can be consumed as snack every day,
   which is having fewer fats. Frozen pizzas are not bought because people
   rather preferred fresh pizzas at Western restaurants such as Pizza Hut.

   Consumers like fast food offerings with a light sauce such as tomato
   sauce or with a special sauce (chutney) made from fresh vegetables for
   a healthier variant. Consumers are least likely to purchase alcoholic
   (beer, etc.) items because they don’t find it suitable with Western
   fast foods. Frozen offerings (frozen pizzas) also seem as least likely
   buy. All the participants prefer beverages with the Western fast food
   offerings. Participants did not like too oily products and salads are
   also mentioned by most of the buyers as a good combination with the
   offerings.

   Time and occasion:
   Most of the participants consume western fast foods frequently. On an
   average, they consume Western fast foods 3 to 4 times a week at
   restaurants, mostly at breakfast or at lunchtime, but some of them
   consume Western fast food up to 8 times a week. Participants opt for
   western cuisine at fast food restaurants such as McDonalds, Kentucky
   Fried Chicken, Pizza Hut and local organized fast food restaurants as
   these are the places that they recognized from their childhood onwards
   and are perceived to provide clean, quick, and reasonably priced food.
   If eating at home most of them prefer ordering the offerings by ‘Home
   delivery’ service.

   Having food with peers, family is preferred by most of the respondents.
   Therefore, they would purchase the best quality food provided that the
   food is fresh, not expensive, has traditional flavors that satisfies
   their simple eating habits. Those who liked Western fast food as meal
   perceived it as cleaner and more hygienic, time saving, better quality
   and less expensive because of in-store promotions, and above all other
   family members, especially children liked the offerings.

   4.6.2 General attitudes towards Western fast food products:
   Most of the participants preferred Western fast food products above
   local fast food products for the following reasons (see also previous
   paragraph):
     * Food is fresher
     * Food has better quality
     * Food is clean and hygienic
     * Food is convenient/easy to eat
     * Food has better nutritional value
     * Food has better/durable packaging
     * Food is recommended by family members, friends or colleagues at
       work

   4.5.3 Motivational factors behind buying behavior:
   In order to obtain a better understanding of consumer motivations
   behind their buying behavior most of the questions were kept open ended
   along with most often occurring motives as understood from the
   secondary data. Participants ranked their most important motives to try
   a Western fast food product for the first time in order of importance
   as follows:

   Motivation mentioned:
     * Word of mouth recommendation from friends/relatives
     * Free sample at a promotional counter
     * Advertising outside the store (e.g. commercial ad on TV or print ad
       from magazines, food magazines particularly)
     * Natural curiosity
     * Food wrapped in a nice packaging
     * Special in-store promotional display
     * Price cuts in the offerings
     * Economic offerings for large groups (e.g. Happy price menus from
       McDonald’s and Combo meals from Pizza hut)

   Other less important motivations mentioned by consumers include food
   freshness directly seen from the packaging, country of origin, detail
   information about the ingredients, and detail information on the
   production process.

   Factors that have the greatest influence on their eating and food
   buying practices are family members, closed related friends, health
   issues, product information, in-store promotions and advertising.
   Most of the consumers agreed that Western fast food products are
   hygienic/safe to eat, easily available, time saving, convenient/easy to
   eat, ideal for social gatherings, enjoyable, give value for money and
   is today’s trend in Chandigarh.

   Salient beliefs mentioned by respondents include cleanliness, safe to
   eat, time saving, convenience, is a trend in Chandigarh, good quality
   standard, eating habit, better nutritional value and freshness.
   Half of the participants agreed that a brand was important when
   choosing Western fast food products because of the following factors:
     * The general image of the company; if the company has a good
       reputation, this was perceived as a guarantee for high quality
       products
     * Standard guarantee in respect of safety and hygiene; well-known
       brands are perceived as more reliable than less well-known brands.

   The most important criteria for participants to pick up certain Western
   food products include taste, store cleanliness, freshness, nutritional
   benefits, food quality, price, country of origin, packaging and brand
   name. All participants are aware that the price of Western fast food
   products is higher than the prices for local food products. However,
   they are willing to pay more for a Western food product over a similar
   local food product because of the following reasons: (1)
   convenient/easy to eat, (2) variety in offerings, (3) food quality is
   more important than price. They have better confidence in the quality
   of Western fast foods.

   On the basis of sensory food characteristics, products having
   traditional Indian flavors are generally preferred over all others.
   Depending on one’s demographic traits, preference may be based on
   money-saving or timesaving characteristics. Consumers also have a
   general preference for variety in the diet, related to the willingness
   of most of the participants to try new foods. Consumers also have a
   preference for freshness. As most of the participants spend most of
   their time outside their home, food shopping tends to be done daily.
   Because generally fast food products are consumed right away there is
   no need for storage or preservation, therefore, products are always
   purchased extremely fresh. When eating alone or in small groups, there
   is a tendency to eat Western fast foods, many of which are perceived as
   requiring less time and effort. Eating in restaurants and/or eating
   Indian-style foods seem to be preferred in situations involving larger
   groups (during lunch/dinner).

   There are two reasons for this: cooking at home for large groups
   requires too much time and effort; and Indian style meals involve the
   sharing of many dishes among everyone at the table. The variety that
   results from this practice is greater with larger groups of people. The
   adoption of Western fast foods is related to the influence of
   significant others, such as family members, the education system
   (hygienic/unhygienic), mass media and co-workers. Social influences may
   encourage or discourage the adoption of Western fast foods.

   Seniors are generally less likely to adopt Western fast food
   consumption behaviors (home cooked food is generally preferred by
   elderly people). The role of mass media in the adoption of Western fast
   foods is primarily to create awareness of the existence of various food
   products, and to provide information. In-store samples of products are
   useful in providing the trial of novel foods. However, attitudes
   towards Western foods are formed more through word-of-mouth and to some
   extent through personal experience and messages of the media.

   Several factors were found to motivate the retention of Western fast
   foods. Perhaps the strongest factor affecting the use of Western fast
   foods is Indian traditions. Foods whose qualities conflict with the
   sensory characteristics of traditional Indian foods are generally tried
   more reluctantly. Western foods are perceived to be having ingredients
   made from beef and pork (tallow) by some of the consumers. In India cow
   is sacred to the Hindus and Pork to the Muslims. Price is also an
   important consideration when making consumption decisions. Low prices
   may induce the trial of some Western fast foods and may allow a Western
   product to be chosen over a similar Indian product.

   However, the people’s love for fast food is reflected in the
   overwhelming number of fast food outlets, whether they are western fast
   food restaurants, local fast food restaurants, snack shops or street
   stalls/kiosks.

   CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS
   5.1 Introduction to Conclusion:
   In the course of carrying out the research study, very important
   aspects have emerged. Despite being the city having highest per capita
   income and competing in every aspect with a well-developed western
   town, the results show an astounding difference between the consumption
   behavior of the western consumers and urban Indian consumers. Below
   listed are the preferences of consumers in Chandigarh for Western fast
   food offerings:

   5.1.1 General:
   The food market in Chandigarh is a large market, which offers
   opportunities for overseas suppliers and producers as a significant
   number of fast food products are in big demand. Chandigarh has a
   population of 6.5 million, comprising mostly of domestic households.

   Shopping and eating habits of domestic households generally reflect
   Indian customs and local circumstances. But, at the same time people
   love to associate themselves with the western culture. Gender roles are
   now changing. Females have started working outside. So, they have no
   time for their home, especially for cooking food. Fast food is an easy
   way out because these are easily available and are convenient/easy to
   eat. Larger families often dine out at dinnertime, and most working
   people dine out at lunchtime.

   Awareness of Western fast food products among Hong Kong consumers is
   high. On average shoppers mention 3.8 Western fast food products
   (un-prompted), when asked. Fresh pizzas, burgers, hot-dogs, French
   fries and sandwiches are mentioned most.

   Local fast food restaurants are the main outlets for fresh food
   products, especially among elderly grocery shoppers. However, as
   younger generations tend to adopt a more Western lifestyle, Western
   fast food outlets are enjoying an increasing share of the market.

   The market for western fast food products is a highly competitive
   market in Chandigarh, due to its free and open nature. Fast food chains
   are originating from all over the world, but the dominant fast food
   chains are from the U.S. Due to the ambience and better service
   conditions, local fast food outlets are preferred by the elderly
   consumers.

   5.1.2 Who are the Consumers of Western fast food products:
   Western food products are mostly bought by consumers in the younger age
   group or are bought on behalf of them by family members/older relatives
   in the same household. The maximum number of consumers of Western fast
   food products are from the age group of 15-25 years, and from the
   household income perspective, most of the consumers are from the
   average income group (Rs.15, 000 to Rs.25, 000; 34%). Consumers are
   relatively open to try out new products and tastes. Differences in age
   and income are important determinants of attitudes and preferences
   towards Western fast food products.

   Hamburgers:
   Purchase frequency of hamburgers is higher in younger consumers (15-25
   years) and it keeps decreasing with the increase in age. Higher income
   people (Rs.45, 000 & above) less often consume hamburgers (15%),
   instead they buy for their children. However, 22% of the average income
   (Rs. 15-25, 000) people eat them 3-4 times a week, while most other
   people buy them only once or twice a month. On an average there is no
   much difference in the consumption of hamburgers for male and female
   consumers.

   Pizzas:
   For the consumption of pizzas the level of income and sex ratio has a
   major impact on the purchase penetration rate. Purchase frequency of
   pizzas is higher in the income group of Rs.15, 000-25, 000. Higher
   income consumers (Rs.45, 000 & above) less often buy pizzas (27%). The
   penetration is much higher under the younger buyers than under older
   buyers. Female consumers are more health conscious and therefore, their
   purchase penetration is lower than male consumers.

   Sandwiches:
   There is no significant difference for the purchase frequency of
   sandwiches when considering the age factor of the consumers, and the
   frequency of buying the sandwiches is higher both in males as well as
   females. Purchase frequency of sandwiches is higher in the income group
   of Rs.10,000-15,000; 89%. However it is noted that higher income people
   (Rs.40, 000 & above) less often buy sandwiches (11%) instead they buy
   for their children.

   5.1.3 How consumers become acquainted with Western fast food products:
   The influence of western culture through media or recommendation from
   relatives or close friends is an important factor of how people get
   acquainted with Western fast food products. Another important way for
   consumers to learn about Western fast foods is dining out in one of the
   many Western restaurants. Especially fast food chains as McDonalds and
   Pizza Hut are well known by consumers. Other important direct triggers
   are advertising, in-store promotions in fast food outlets such as Happy
   meals, free gifts for kids and so on.

   Hamburgers:
   Consumers became acquainted with hamburgers by:
   -Commercial sources, such as, advertising, in-store promotions,
   restaurants (56%)
   – Personal sources, such as family, friends, neighbors, acquaintances
   (19%).
   -15% learned by their experience to try hamburgers out of curiosity.

   Pizzas:
   Consumers became acquainted with pizzas by:
   – Personal sources, such as, family, friends, neighbors, acquaintances
   (42%)
   – Commercial sources, such as advertising, in-store promotions,
   restaurants (38 %)
   Sandwiches:
   Shoppers became acquainted with sandwiches by:
   -Personal sources (39%), such as, family, friends, neighbors,
   acquaintances and 26 % learned by their experience to try sandwiches
   out of curiosity.
   – Advertising, in-store promotions (20%)

   5.1.4 What are consumers looking for in Western fast food products:
     * Generally, Western fast food products are preferred above local
       fast food products for the following reasons:
       – Freshness – Better/durable packaging
       – Better quality – Easy and quick to consume
       – Clean and hygienic – Variety in offerings
       – Better sales service – Better nutritional value
     * Consumers think that the price of Western fast food products is
       higher than the price of local foods, but they are willing to pay
       more for quality and service. Average and higher income shoppers
       are more aware of the price differences, because they buy it more
       often. However, 49% of the respondents mention that Western food
       products are too expensive. Younger people mention more often than
       older people that price is a limiting factor when buying Western
       food products, because they buy them more often.
     * Taste appears to be strength and a weakness for different products.
       49% of all respondents, regardless of gender, age or income; rate
       taste as the most important factor why they like Western fast food
       products. However, when inquiring the dislikes towards Western food
       products, price and ‘unhealthy to eat’ are rated by most of the
       participants as the main ‘dislike’. Younger people like Western
       fast food products more because of its taste, convenience (easy to
       eat) and quality. Higher income shoppers like Western fast food
       products more because of its taste, quality, its appearance and
       packaging. However, most of the female consumers dislike the
       offerings because of its higher price.
     * Purchasing a branded product is considered important when choosing
       Western fast food products. Consumers associate these with the
       general image of the company as a guarantee for the quality, safety
       and hygiene of the product sold by that company. Well-known brands
       are perceived as more reliable than less well-known brands; whether
       it is a foreign brand or a local brand, doesn’t makes a big
       difference to the consumers.
       Hamburgers:
     * Western hamburgers are mainly bought in Western fast food outlets.
       Convenient/easy to eat, ‘children like it’ and taste are the most
       important reasons for buying hamburgers. Female and older buyers
       rate taste and freshness as the most important motive for buying
       hamburgers. The other most important reason to buy hamburger is
       that hamburgers are considered as a snack food, which is rated high
       by both the younger and higher income buyers.
     * Generally, brands are not important when buying hamburgers. Younger
       people find brand name even less important than the average
       consumer. However, 55% of the hamburger buyers find it important to
       have some visual cues on the packaging, especially female and
       higher income hamburger buyers. The country of origin is important
       to most consumers.
     * Most hamburger buyers consume hamburgers right away and eat them as
       a snack; especially younger hamburger buyers. Lower income
       hamburger buyers tend to eat them as part of their meal. The most
       important products preferred in combination with the hamburgers are
       beverages, ketchup, and salads. When hamburgers are not available,
       some buyers would buy any kind of fast food product, whether
       western or local, as an alternative, while others would end up not
       buying anything at all.
     * The number of people who intend to buy less or same number of
       hamburgers this year is larger than the number of consumers who
       intend to buy more. If intend to buy less, reasons to buy less are
       that buyers feel the hamburgers are: (1) expensive, (2) lack in
       nutritional benefits, (3) freshness. If intend to buy more, reasons
       to buy more are that buyers like the (1) taste, (2) quality, (3)
       children like it and (4) convenient (easy to eat).

   Pizzas:
     * 53% of the consumers buy pizzas 1-2 times per week and purchase
       frequency of pizzas is higher in the income group of Rs.15, 000-25,
       000. Pizzas are mainly bought in Western fast food outlets. Taste
       is the most important reason for buying pizzas. Taste and having
       too much caloric value are also the most important reasons people
       less often buy pizzas. The second most important reason to buy
       pizzas is convenient/easy to eat, which is rated by younger buyers
       as the most important reason.
     * Most of the pizza buyers find the brand name neither important/nor
       unimportant, whereas female buyers rate brand name as important.
       About 42% of all pizza buyers find it important to see visual cues
       on the packaging, but they are not interested in the country of
       origin.
     * Most pizza buyers eat pizzas as a snack. This can be attributed to
       the fact that most of the population in the city of Chandigarh
       spends most of their time outside their home. Most of the lower
       income buyers (Rs.10, 000 to Rs.15, 000; 89%) eat pizza as a meal.
       75% of male buyers eat pizza as a snack while 83% of female buyers
       prefer pizzas as a meal. However, female consumers like to share
       the pizzas with others and maximum number of them buy for children.
       Most of the younger consumers like to eat the pizzas right away.
     * Most buyers would not buy another substitute in case of
       unavailability of a pizza, although 79% of the younger buyers
       (15yrs. to 25yrs.) would prefer any kind of Western fast food as an
       alternative to pizzas. The most important products preferred in
       combination with the pizzas are beverages, ketchup, dip sauce and
       salads.
     * For the next year, the number of consumers who intend to buy fewer
       pizzas is larger than the number of consumers who intend to buy
       more. If intend to buy less the most important reason are: (1) not
       healthy, (2) expensive. The most important reasons to buy more are:
       (1) Convenient/easy to eat, (2) as a snack, (3) children like it
       (4) freshness. The number of female buyers who intend to buy fewer
       pizzas next year is larger than the number of male buyers. This can
       again be attributed to the health consciousness among females.

   Sandwiches:
     * Purchase frequency of sandwiches is higher in the income group of
       Rs.10, 000-15,000; 89%, and they are mainly bought in snack shops.
       The most important reasons for buying are (1) as a snack, (2)
       convenient/easy to eat. The second most important reason to buy
       sandwiches is freshness, which is rated by most of the female
       buyers and older consumers as the most important reason. ‘Lack of
       freshness’ is also the most important reason people never buy
       sandwiches (41%) followed by not very tasty (18%).
     * Almost half of the buyers find the brand name neither important,
       nor unimportant; whereas higher income (Rs.40, 000 & above; 89%),
       female buyers of sandwiches find brand name as important. The most
       important reason being the use of fresh and quality ingredients.
       However, most buyers (39%) find packaging important. Younger
       sandwich buyers mention packaging of sandwiches neither important,
       nor unimportant.
     * If sandwiches would not be available, most buyers would replace
       them by local fast foods. For the next year the number of people
       who intend to buy same/more sandwiches is higher than the number of
       consumers who intend to buy less. If intend to buy more the most
       important reasons are: (1) less caloric/healthy, (2) cheaper as
       compared to the products in the same category, (3) Convenient/easy
       to eat, (4) As a snack, (5) Freshness.

   5.2 Introduction to Recommendations:
   The Fast food industry in India is poised for significant growth over
   the next few decades, particularly in urban India. Gaining local
   acceptance and blending in to the Indian culture still remains a
   challenge for many fast food restaurants. The study was undertaken with
   an objective to understand the preferences of consumers in Chandigarh
   on Western fast food offerings and based on the results of the study
   the main objective was to identify factors to be considered to
   encourage buying of western fast food offerings.
   Following are some of the recommendations that can be adopted by
   various brands to encourage the buying of Western fast food products.

   India’s fast food industry is growing by 40% a year and is expected to
   generate a billion dollars in sales by 2006. Marketing of fast food and
   getting a foothold in India is going to be highly competitive in the
   near future because of the high potential of the Indian processed food
   sector. On an average, each household spends about 50% of income on
   food and beverages. Following factors should be considered to encourage
   purchasing of Western fast food products:
     * Price appears to be a critical factor in the choice making process
       of consumers, especially younger people. A typical Indian is price
       sensitive because of his modest disposable income and he has
       comparable options in local food. Globally fast food chains only
       succeed when they bring their prices down to the same level as the
       street food. The trick can be to make the offerings better than the
       local food, and price them competitively. Most of the times this
       becomes impossible, so this can be counterbalanced by concentrating
       more on data base marketing and below-the-line activities and
       special offers.
     * Increasingly, eating out is becoming synonymous with entertainment.
       A clean and well-organized store atmosphere appears to be an
       attractive feature. The trend towards takeaways is also fast
       gaining popularity among Indian consumers. Most of the consumers of
       fast food products are from the younger age group; therefore the
       potential consumers should be enticed with TV spots, children
       parties, gifts for kids, and an ambience that is child and teenager
       friendly. Older consumers prefer to visit local fast food
       restaurants instead of self-service Western style restaurants;
       hence addressing such need can be an added feature. In India,
       social and cultural values have a very strong hold on the people.
       The fast food culture has imposed greatly on the views of
       youngsters and the desire for a large family meal. The marketers
       should focus more on positioning themselves as family restaurants
       highlighting their Indian menus.
     * Curiosity and an overall willingness to try new food and the value
       placed on variety in the diet indicate that Western origin fast
       foods are relatively likely to be tried and eventually accepted
       into the diets of consumers. The marketers should gauge to what
       extent preferences converge between the west and India with respect
       to product category. Fast food outlets should introduce varieties
       of products in order to cater the demands of each and every segment
       of the market. Fusion of Indian flavors with western products can
       be offered to counter competition from local products, and also
       strike a good hybrid culture, which will be highly acceptable to
       the western friendly youth in India. All categories of products
       should be introduced so that people of all age, sex, class, and
       income group can become a customer of manufacturer’s food line.
       Products should be developed and marketed to be compatible with
       Indian flavor principles and cooking methods, taking into
       consideration Indian culture and religious sentiments. An ethical
       sensitivity regarding the social legitimacy of consumer influence
       should be there.
     * Visual cues on packaging and clear labels (i.e. name of food, list
       of ingredients, logos) in stores are important. Most consumers
       prefer products with nutritional and caloric value printed on the
       packaging of the products. Nutritional information should be posted
       in prominent locations and online. Apart from salads, vegetarian
       offerings should be given high priority catering to the demand of
       the potential consumers.
     * The time and effort required to shop for and convenience/ease of
       eating food becomes more important in the decision-making process.
       An increased popularity of easy-to-eat products may therefore be
       anticipated. More take-out products can be added to the present
       variety of offerings. A brand should invest more and concentrate on
       having a more efficient distribution system in par with existing
       global standards. It needs to expand in India in parallel to the
       new trend in fast food chains, setting out tiny outlets such as
       express, takeaway, delivery and small dine-ins by fuel stations, in
       multiplexes and other highly frequently visited locations.

   5.3 Implications for Future Research:
   The following issues are suggested for future research to fill the
   existing research gaps:
     * The research project concerned a pilot project on a limited number
       of individual Western fast food offerings only, which may be
       extended to an envisioned continuous annual research programme. The
       scope and content of the study could be widened if similar research
       is conducted with more different product categories in the market
       having similar conditions.
     * The study was conducted in the city of Chandigarh, where it is
       estimated that consumers spend most of their time outside their
       homes. Therefore, the consumers were interviewed at various fast
       food outlets in the city. The trend towards takeaways and ‘home
       delivery’ is also fast gaining popularity among Indian consumers.
       Therefore, the scope of the study can be extended if questionnaires
       are put forward to consumers at their residences, offices, etc.
       Such a study would be very useful in understanding the preferences
       of consumers for the various offerings, and services (e.g.
       home-delivery service, etc.). It will give a deep insight about
       liking and buying behavior of consumers towards Western fast food
       offerings.
     * More intensive and time bound location specific research efforts
       are needed to get a foothold in a highly competitive fast food
       market like India.

   A Model Of Consumer Decision making Process^34:
   A Model Of Consumer Decision making Process

   According to Dr. Thompson, to arrive at a process of decision making, a
   customer normally follows the above process. When stimuli, often
   information from companies, reach an intended customer the decision and
   evaluation process begins. By a complex interaction between the
   individual and environment factors and the marketing mix the individual
   evaluates the stimuli. On completing the process, the consumer reaches
   a decision on the product or service. Even if the decision is positive
   it does not necessarily mean that consumer will make a purchase.
   Attitudes formed directly are proved to be much more stable and
   foreseeable than indirect formed attitudes like questionnaires. It is
   intention that determines what behavior will the consumer choose^35.

   References
   1 Consumer Food Service in India, http://www.euromonitor.com/
   (Accessed- October 2, 2005)
   2 http://www.indianfoodindustry.net/ (Accessed- October- 2, 2005)
   See, ‘A bite of the Indian bazaar’, The Times of India, Editorial, Pune
   Edition, May 31, 2005.
   3 http://www.euromonitor.com/: Consumer Food Service in India
   (Accessed- October 2, 2005)
   4 Axelson M.L. and Brinberg D; A Social-Psychological Perspective on
   Food-Related behavior;
   New York: Spinger Verlag, 1989, pg-49.
   Also See Appendix- II, pg 100, for A Model Of Consumer Behavior Process
   by Dr. Thompson
   5 Cultural availability deals with what food products are thought of as
   edible materials by a given culture, e.g. Westerners do not understand
   the Chinese, who bury ducks’ eggs in the ground, so that they start to
   ferment, just as the Chinese cannot understand Westerners, when they
   eat cheese, which they regard as bad milk. Similarly, majority of
   Indians don’t eat beef products because cow is considered sacred in
   Hindu culture.
   6 http://www.indiainbusiness.nic.in/india-profile/ser-retail.htm
   (Accessed- September 24, 2005)
   7 Professor Kishore Dash; “McDonald’s in India”, Case Study; 2005
   Thunderbird, The Garvin School of
   International Management.
   8 Vivek Gupta, “McDonald’s- Fast Food Fables”, Marketing Management,
   Vol-1, pg 121-127
   Publisher ICFAI books.
   9 See Appendix- V, pg- 115: Percentage of vegetarians as per the states
   in India,
   10 D. Balasubramanian, “Changes in the Indian Menu over the Ages,” The
   Hindu, October 21, 2004
   10 Lane Kelsey, Fast food, Southern India style, Embarcadero publishing
   company
   www.my-voice.com (Accessed July 18, 2005).
   11 Khurshid Anwar Warsi & Syeedun Nisa, Food Retailing: fast food
   industry,
   Publisher-Social Service Research Network.
   12 Debashish Ganguly, The Market for consumer Food services in India
   (Dec 2002). Euro monitor publications. Publisher- just-food.com
   13 http://www.euromonitor.com/: Consumer Food Service in India
   (Accessed- October 2, 2005)
   14 USDA Foreign Agricultural Services, GAIN report#IN9082, U.S.
   Embassy, New Delhi; Annual 1999, Pg-2-3
   15 Professor Kishore Dash; “McDonald’s in India”, Case Study; 2005
   Thunderbird, The Garvin School of
   International Management.
   16 GAIN report no IN5066; Global Agriculture Information Report, HRI
   food service sector; Annual 2005; US Embassy 2005.
   22 Dani Rodrik and Arvind Subramanian, ‘Why India Can Grow at 7 Percent
   a Year or More: Projections
   and Reflections’; IMF Working Paper, July 2004.
   23 EIU, Business India Intelligence, January 26, 2005, Vol. 12, No. 2,
   pg- 5.
   24 NCAER (National Council of Applied Economic Research) survey report,
   March 9, 2004.
   25 “Looking on the Bright Side: India’s Economy Is Revving Up,” The
   Economist, February 21,
   2004, pg.- 13.
   26 Goldman Sachs, Global Economic Paper No 99: Dreaming with
   BRICs: The Path to 2050, October 2003,
   http://www.gs.com/insight/research/reports/report6.html.
   Also see the follow-up report by Goldman Sachs, Global Economic Paper
   No 112: The G8: Time for
   Change, June 2004;
   http://www.gs.com/insight/research/reports/report15.html.
   27 Tim Dyson, Robert Cassen, and Leela Visaria, Twnety-First Century
   India: Population, Economy,
   Human Development and the Environment; Oxford University Press, 2004.
   28 Adirupa Sengupta, “Living Up to the Choices Offered by the Free
   Market,” India Abroad, August 29
   29 Dr C.S. Gautam and Dr H.M. Swami, “Obesity: a nightmare of the
   future”, Tribune News Service,
   Chandigarh; April 1, 2004
   34 Dr. Thompson Kenneth N, A Model of Consumer Behavior Process.
   35 Smith R, Psychology; Pg 579

   IFRAME:
   https://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.abcofm
   arketing.com%2Fconsumer-preferences-towards-western-origin-fast-foods-i
   n-urban-india%2F&layout=button_count&show_faces=false&width=85&action=l
   ike&font=verdana&colorscheme=light&height=21

   More Entries :
     * Explain Bases of Segmentation / Segmentation variables for consumer
       markets.
     * Discuss the Macro Environmental Bases or variables for
       International markets.
     * Discuss Macro Environmental factors in Marketing Environment
       Dynamics
     * What are the Factors that affect Consumer Buying Behaviour?
     * Discuss marketing competition and types of competition in
       marketing.

     *

Marketing Topics
     * Advertising and Sales Promotions
     * Basics of Marketing
     * Branding, Packaging and Labelling
     * Business Markets and Buyer Behaviour
     * Case Studies
     * Consumer Buying Behaviour
     * Distribution Channels
     * Handling Competition in Marketing
     * International Marketing
     * Market Segmentation and Target Marketing
     * Marketing Concepts
     * Marketing Environment Dynamics
     * Marketing Management
     * New Product Development Product and Product Strategies
     * Pricing Decisions
     * Promotion Mix – Marketing Communications
     * Public Relations and Direct Marketing
     * Sales Force Management (Personal Selling)
     * Services Marketing
     * Strategic Marketing Planning
     * The Super Customer and Customer Relationship

Recently Added

     * What are challenges before the managers in handling team members?
     * What are the Key TQM (Total Quality Management) concepts and
       tenets?
     * How Marketing and Human Resources benefit each other?
     * What is the importance of data in marketing?
     * What are the retailers, their types, and describe their functions?
     * What are the Functions of Wholesalers?
     * What is the difference between Business buying and Consumer buying
       (individual Buying)?
     * What is Brand Loyalty and steps to increase Brand Loyalty?
     * Explain difference between wholesaler and retailers and their
       types.
     * Consumer Preferences towards Western Origin Fast Foods in Urban
       India

   About Us | Contact Us | Disclaimer | Privacy Policy

                 All Rights Reserved:2018 ABCofmarketing.com

   shopify analytics
