   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MRVXSHQ

   Skip to main content

   Advertisement
   Advertisement
   BMC
   Part of Springer Nature
   (BUTTON) Search
     * Explore journals
     * Get published
     * About BMC
     * My account

   Search all BMC articles
   ____________________
   (BUTTON) Search
   Journal of Ethnic Foods
     * Home
     * About
     * Articles
     * Submission Guidelines

   Evolution of Indian cuisine: a socio-historical review
   Download PDF
   Download PDF
     * Original article
     * Open Access
     * Published: 28 April 2022

Evolution of Indian cuisine: a socio-historical review

     * Vishu Antani^1,2 &
     * Santosh Mahapatra  ORCID: orcid.org/0000-0002-0077-2882^3

   Journal of Ethnic Foods volume 9, Article number: 15 (2022) Cite this
   article
     * 9447 Accesses
     * 1 Altmetric
     * Metrics details

Abstract

   This paper aims to present a socio-historical review of Indian cuisine
   and its evolution. Based on a thorough analysis of a wide range of
   documents, the investigation focuses on four eras, each having a
   significant and lasting effect on Indian cuisine. Parallels have been
   drawn to modern Indian cuisine wherever possible. This study follows
   the advances in Indian cuisine through the prehistoric era, into the
   Vedic era, where religious scriptures, especially the Hindu scriptures,
   affected what was cooked during the time, followed by the invasion of
   the subcontinent by the Mughals. Finally, the effects of European
   colonization on Indian cuisine are critically analysed and an attempt
   is made to examine threads, if any, connecting culinary preferences of
   people across these phases. The results of the analysis indicate the
   intriguing impact of intricate connections among several sociocultural
   factors on the evolution of Indian cuisine. At the end of the paper, a
   few areas are identified for future exploration.

Introduction

   This paper tries to trace the history of Indian cuisine, a topic that
   remains surprisingly underexplored in the gastronomy literature. Unique
   in its standing and mysterious in many ways, as claimed by the famous
   novelist E. M. Forster [20], India remains a curious case of interest.
   Among other things, its food culture has a vibrant history filled with
   tasty twists and turns, which is in agreement with the claim that
   Indian culture can be explored through its foods. In fact, across many
   cultures, one can historically trace sociocultural reasons behind
   culinary choices [1]. Tracing the history of food in India is pivotal
   to understanding Indian cuisine. For a very long time, each of India’s
   conglomeration of kingdoms had a royal court tended by chefs and
   innovations in food took place in these kitchens; new dishes were
   created, and old dishes were recreated. In the kitchens of commoners,
   cooks or housewives would try to recreate those dishes using
   ingredients at their disposal. Modern Indian cuisine is the result of
   the flavourful adventure India has been through, and in this adventure,
   one can socio-historically trace the interaction between personal and
   social choices, the divine and the mundane obligations [8], and the
   karma and its repercussions. The beginnings of India’s food history,
   especially during Vedic times, were driven by the attributive property
   of Guṇa, a Hindu philosophical concept referring to quality or
   peculiarity. Sattva, rajas, and tamas, the three Guṇas, were believed
   to have manifestations in the form of ‘vegetarian, spicy and
   carnivorous’ [6, 43]. Even the philosophy of ahimsa shaped the food
   choices of people in ancient Hindu civilizations [42]. This
   philosophical tradition underwent a series of changes, challenged by
   the geopolitical and sociocultural changes that came to India with the
   Mughal invasion and European colonization. In this paper, we have
   presented a brief historical review of Indian cuisine that covers a
   period starting with the prehistoric era and ending with European
   colonization and have demonstrated how the evolution of food in India
   is deeply enmeshed in various factors like culture, religion,
   ethnicity, financial background, social class, and availability of and
   access to raw materials.

Methodology

   We collected data for the study through thorough document analysis. We
   surveyed ancient religious scriptures from archives, newspapers,
   memoirs, travelogues, research articles, poems, history books and books
   written on food cultures, and made comprehensive notes. All the notes
   were verified through information collected from more than one source.
   Then, we searched for patterns in the data and organized the details
   under the four most frequently found patterns in food culture:
   Prehistoric, Vedic, Mughal, and European colonization. For each era, we
   arranged the information in a systematic manner which mainly focused on
   discussions on the evolution of food through a close interplay between
   sociocultural factors and the availability of raw materials required
   for the preparation of food.

Results and discussion

Prehistoric era

   Prehistoric food habits in India still remain partly shrouded in
   uncertainties [33]. Like literature, cuisines from a different era have
   proved difficult to understand. Written recipes may be one of the
   sources of determining the type of food eaten by the people then, but
   language still remains a barrier [11, 16, 32], which is especially true
   in the case of prehistoric India. What we know about people’s food
   habits is an episodic story of survival and a transition to becoming an
   agrarian community [33]. The information is obtained through
   anthropological evidence and cave paintings found in various parts of
   Indian states such as Rajasthan, Gujrat and Punjab [1].

   Bones of cattle, goats, sheep, buffalo, and pigs have been found at
   Harappan excavation sites. While cattle, goats, and sheep may have been
   domesticated, it is also possible that they were hunted or raised for
   their flesh. Cattle farming was mainly restricted to the Zebu cattle,
   native to the Indus Valley region (see Fig. 1) [21]. Bones of wild
   animals like boar, deer, and gharial have also been found. Along with
   these, the remains of fish and fowl were also discovered. Grilling was
   the preferred way to cook meat. The animal would be roasted whole on an
   open fire or cut into bite-size chunks [33, 35, 36]. These chunks were
   pierced onto a skewer and roasted, like modern-day tikkas. The animal
   was lodged onto a stick, which could be rotated, and placed over the
   fire. Pottery from prehistoric times has revealed the presence of bowls
   with wide mouths, which indicates the use of boiling as another method
   of preparation [24].
   Fig. 1
   figure 1

   Source: Wikimedia Commons
   https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Indus_Valley_Civilization,_Matu
   re_Phase_(2600-1900_BCE).png

   A map of the Indus Valley Civilization dating back to 2600–1900 BCE. It
   was a Bronze Age civilization and one of the most widespread
   civilizations in Asia, spanning modern-day north and north-western
   India, most of Pakistan and Afghanistan.
   Full size image

   Pulses and grains were consumed by the people of the Indus Valley [23].
   Various pulses like chickpeas, red lentil, and green peas were
   introduced from Western Asia to the Indus Valley in around 4000 B.C.
   Barley and wheat were also found along with the pulses at
   archaeological sites. Their use carried over into the Vedic era, when
   barley was one of the primary grains. Rice was consumed much later.

   Several stone tools of varying sizes have been discovered at excavation
   sites. Large saddle querns have been found, probably used for grinding
   grains to make flour. Two types of stones may have been used with the
   querns: a small one for rolling, like a rolling pin, and a larger,
   heavier one to pound on materials. Curry stones would have been used to
   grind spices. However, it remains unclear whether the spices were grown
   within the region or obtained through trade or barter.

Vedic era

   Many important texts on medicine, yoga, literature, religion, etc.,
   from the Vedic era, such as Patanjali’s Yoga Sutras, Caraka’s
   Caraka-Saṃhitā, and  the Upanishads, have discussed foods and their
   impact on the human body. The Vedas have emphasized the connection
   between spirituality and the choice of food without relinquishing the
   need for taste and health [27]. Recent research throws light on
   linguistic similarities of food items consumed across cultures making
   it slightly easier to connect the finer dots of Indian cuisine from the
   Vedic era [1]. The decline of the Indus Valley Civilization was
   followed by the Vedic period. During this period, the north-western
   region of the Indian subcontinent was occupied by Indo-Aryans. Most of
   the Aryans then were pastoralists. Milk provided for their food and
   other products like butter and curd.

   The Aryans considered food to be a gift from God and a source of
   strength. In the four Vedas, Rigveda, Samaveda, Yajurveda, and
   Atharvaveda, there are various mentions of the grains used during those
   times [38]. Initially, barley was a staple food of most Aryans.
   Cultivation of other crops such as wheat, sugarcane, and millets
   followed. Lentils, mainly red, green, and black, were also grown.
   Later, the Aryans added rice and other cereals to their diet [13].

   Sweetcakes called apupa have been mentioned multiple times in the
   Vedas. Apupa or Malpua (see Fig. 2), as it is called today, was made
   with barley flour. The batter would be flattened into cakes and fried
   in ghee. Before serving, the fried cake was dipped in honey. Many
   variations have developed over time, and malpua is now paired with
   various condiments. Today, the batter is made with refined wheat flour
   or semolina flour and milk. Like the Vedic version, the batter is
   spread into flat cakes and fried in ghee. Instead of honey, the cakes
   are soaked in sugar syrup flavoured with saffron or jaggery (cane
   sugar) syrup. They are topped with chopped almonds and pistachios and
   paired with rabri, a sweet made by boiling milk at low heat with sugar
   and spices.
   Fig. 2
   figure 2

   Malpua and Rabri: Malpua is an Indian sweet fried pancake, made from a
   batter of wheat or barley flour. It is fried in ghee and then placed in
   sugar syrup. Souce: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/malpua-traditional-indian-swee
   t-pancake-coated-1035620161
   Full size image

   Fried barley called dhana was not just eaten as food but was also
   offered to the gods. Pulverized barley seeds, called saktu, have been
   mentioned in the Vedas. Sattu, a flour made from ground pulses, is used
   in many kitchens today, and it may have roots in saktu. A porridge
   called odana was made by boiling barley in milk. Yet another
   preparation called karambha had yogurt mixed with barley, and it is
   still popular in parts of Gujarat.

   Animal meat was presumably used by Hindus in what is now Punjab. Cows,
   goats, buffalo, and bulls were killed for their meat, and
   slaughterhouses have been mentioned in the texts. The practice of
   eating horse flesh was introduced by the Aryans, but its consumption
   did not seem to settle well with the natives. However, there have been
   accounts of slaughter of cows and bulls for their meat [24]. Meats were
   mostly roasted in clay ovens or on spits over charcoal. The consumption
   of meat as a survival strategy can be contrasted with the current
   debates about meat eating and its consequences [46].

   Sesame seeds were important as both food and in rituals. As food, they
   would be cooked with vegetables, added to bread, or crushed to extract
   oil. Turmeric, pepper, and mustard seeds were used as flavourings.
   Various fruits and vegetables are mentioned in the Vedas including the
   bael fruit (Aegle marmelos), mangoes, dates, lotus stalks and roots,
   gourds, jujubes, and water chestnuts. These are not very different from
   the ingredients used in Indian kitchens today.

   Alcoholic beverages existed in Vedic times, as suggested by the mention
   of sura in the Rigveda but disapproved for consumption. The drink has
   been mentioned only in a few places, and at times, in conjunction with
   soma. Soma was considered the drink of Gods and an elixir. The plant
   from which the drink was made has remained a mystery, but historians
   have speculated candidate plants [34]. It could be a type of millet,
   called ragi. Ragi is still used to make marua, an intoxicating drink in
   the Eastern Himalayas. Cannabis could also be the plant referred to in
   the texts which was used for preparing the soma drink [4]. Yet another
   suggestion is the fly agaric mushroom, because of its intoxicating
   effect when consumed [51]. Soma was prepared and offered to gods by
   Brahmans [17]. It is unclear as to whether or when fermentation took
   place [19]. There is debate surrounding the effects of soma [7]. While
   one branch of research views the description of the drink in the Vedas
   as intoxicating, other researchers argue that it was simply
   exhilarating, not intoxicating [44].

   An important aspect of the social system in India that determined food
   culture and consumption among Indo-Aryans was the caste system [40]
   which can be traced back to around 1000 BC. The structural embodiments
   of the caste system, a legitimised practice of inequity believed to be
   inherited through one’s parentage and occupation, engendered a sense of
   purity in the culinary and consumption habits of people. Brahmins, the
   upper caste priests, often adhered to vegetarian food habits led by the
   philosophy of sattva. In contrast, Shudras, the lowest group in the
   caste ladder, engaged in eating animal meat and other kinds of tamasic
   habits. The possibility of upper caste politics to portray certain
   kinds of food habits as superior to others could be indeed the case. It
   is possible that the caste system was strengthened with the help of
   systemic food demonisation. Unfortunately, the caste system continues
   to shape food habits even in present times [39].

   The descriptions about the culinary culture around 500 BC are not
   separately dealt with in any treatises as such. Rather, one can find
   these details in the memoirs of foreign writers and philosophers who
   visited India during those times. Megasthenes, an ambassador of
   Alexander and Chinese visitors such as Fa-Hsien and I-Ching, and Xuan
   Zang, a learned monk from China, have vividly described sociocultural
   practices including food and drinks [1].

Mughal era

   Muslim rulers who were based in Sind (currently in Pakistan) started
   invading India after 700 AD with a desire to have access to the
   material riches the country possessed. In the consecutive millennia,
   continual attempts were made by several warlords such as Mahmud of
   Ghazni, Muhammad of Ghor, Bakhtiyar Khalji, and so on. However, no
   Muslim empire could flourish and sustain till Mughals came to India in
   the sixteenth century [22]. With Mughals came a flood of culinary
   inspirations and innovations that remain highly influential in the
   culinary practices of India [29]. Indian food culture, much like
   architecture, art, music, and language, would be unthinkable without
   considering the Mughal influence [10]. The predecessors of the Mughals,
   the Afghans, had brought with them a lot of culinary wealth. Afghan
   flatbreads, called naan, are now common in most Indian households and
   restaurants. These breads may bear some influence of Egyptian and
   Mesopotamian breads [12, 15, 30]. Koftas in Afghanistan are meatballs
   of minced beef flavoured with onions and other spices. Indian koftas
   are very similar to their Afghan counterparts, but beef is often
   replaced with other meat. In the southern and eastern regions of India,
   koftas are made from fish and shrimps. The meatballs are then served in
   gravy made of broth, milk, and cashew paste. A vegetarian version of
   the dish replaces the meat with grated vegetables or paneer. Jalebi
   (see the details in Fig. 3) is an Afghan dessert that has placed itself
   so well in Indian cuisine, that most people often forget its origin.
   Jalebi is made by frying a batter of refined flour in ghee or oil and
   then soaking it in sugar syrup, which is often infused with saffron
   giving jalebi its colour and fragrance. It is served simply with rose
   petals or alongside rabri. Phirni is one of the recent additions of an
   Afghan dish into Indian cuisine and is made by boiling soaked rice in
   milk along with nuts and khoa.
   Fig. 3
   figure 3

   Jalebi is a dessert made by deep frying flour batter in concentric
   shapes and later dipping in sugar syrup infused with saffron. It is
   enjoyed across the Indian subcontinent and is known by different names
   in different places. Souce: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/jelebi-cafe-458778184
   Full size image

   Mughlai cuisine, with its rich and spicy curries, and fascination with
   meat has been influential in shaping modern Indian cuisine. It is
   important to note that most of the ingredients present in the dishes
   which masquerade themselves as Mughlai dishes, such as chillies,
   tomatoes, and potatoes, were unknown to kitchens in India until the
   late seventeenth or early eighteenth century [28]. This is the effect
   of modernization and innovation in the culinary world. Memoirs of
   rulers, like the Baburnama and the Akbarnama, hold a lot of information
   about food and eating habits [48]. Manuscripts of what seem to be
   recipe books written in Persian have also been found.

   Since the Mughals practised Islam, pork was forbidden in royal courts
   and to other Muslims. Similarly, Hindus frowned upon the consumption of
   beef and refrained from eating it. The meat of a buffalo seemed the
   appropriate replacement for beef. Mutton and goat meat were widely
   consumed, mutton being more common than the latter. Various fowls such
   as chicken, quail, and ducks were also consumed [50]. Even today,
   mutton and fowl meat are the most common meats eaten in India along
   with seafood like fish and shrimp though politics has not left
   food alone. In Mughal times, Akbar, the most powerful and influential
   among Mughal emperors, avoided repeating the mistake of using cows as
   food which his father Humayun did. Humayun’s men ate beef and that
   incited Rajputs, the Hindu royal class. Akbar went to the extent of
   becoming a virtual vegetarian [40] to please Hindus and maintain his
   supremacy. However, the emperors that succeeded Akbar could not play
   the politics of food as wisely as Akbar did.

   Mughlai food has a distinct bouquet associated with it. This aromatic
   aspect of food is brought about by the spices used. Spices were traded
   between Mughals and other rulers in India. Cumin and coriander were and
   still are common across India and were probably grown locally. Saffron,
   a very expensive spice, known for its sweet floral scent was imported
   from Kashmir. Other spices that added heat like cardamom, pepper,
   nutmeg, and ginger were brought from Southern India near the Malabar
   Coast. Turmeric was also brought from there. Interestingly, these
   regions still maintain a very high quality in producing the spices.

   One of the earliest accounts of Mughal cuisine is recorded in the
   Ni’matnama (the Book of Delights). It was a cookbook compiled by
   Ghiyath Shah, the Sultan of Malwa, in the fifteenth century. The
   manuscript is believed to have found its way into the Mughal kitchens
   in 1562, when Akbar conquered the Malwa Sultanate. The book has
   detailed recipes, accompanied by miniature illustrations where the king
   is the central figure of the drawings and notes following dishes,
   classifying them as being worthy to be served to a king, a poor man’s
   food, or a king’s favourite. In the Ni’matnama, there are recipes for a
   variety of sambusas. Sambusas are made with a pastry of refined flour,
   then filled with a savoury, spicy filling, and finally fried. The
   filling of sambusas was made from venison [49]. In samosas (see
   Fig. 4), a modern-day favourite, the filling is made up mainly of
   potatoes, peas, and onions. Samosas continue to be a crowd-favourite
   tea snack in modern India.
   Fig. 4
   figure 4

   Souce: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/samosa-sambusa-triangle-fried-
   baked-dish-1145803784

   Sambusas or Samosas are snacks made by frying pastry filled with a
   savoury filling such as potato, peas, onions, chicken, or lentils. They
   are one of the most popular tea time snacks in India.
   Full size image

   Karhi is a preparation of chickpea flour with yogurt and sour milk
   which has been mentioned in the Ni’matnama and is still made in a lot
   of Indian houses. It is served with fried vegetable fritters, called
   pakoras. The Guajarati variation of karhi is sweetened by adding sugar
   or jaggery.

   A number of dishes mentioned in the Ni’matnama point to Central Asian
   influence in the food. Sambusa is an example of that. Other such dishes
   include sikh, kabab, yakhni, shurba, and kufta. Sikh is a cylinder of
   spiced minced meat on a skewer which is roasted on a tandoor. Yakhni is
   broth made with spiced meat, while shurba is soup.

   Several dishes mentioned in the Ni’matnama, sambusa, sikh, kabab,
   yakhni, shurba, and kufta (refer to Fig. 5a), point to Central Asian
   influence. Sikh (refer to Fig. 5b) is a cylinder of spiced minced meat
   on a skewer which is roasted on a tandoor (refer to Fig. 5d). Yakhni is
   broth made with spiced meat, while shurba (refer to Fig. 5c) is soup.
   Apart from the common spices, a variety of exotic aromatics were used,
   such as musk (nutmeg), camphor, rosewater, and ambergris. The use of
   exotic produce was not limited to aromatics [49]. Recipes included in
   the book called for the use of a variety of unique meats, like
   partridges, rabbits, goats, mountain sheep, pigeons, and quails. Some
   of these meats are not common in modern Indian kitchens. The use of
   nutmeg is still prominent in Indian cuisine, but ambergris is obsolete.
   Fig. 5
   figure 5

   a Malai Kofta is a dish made by adding fried balls of potatoes or meat
   in a rich spiced tomato gravy, topped with fresh cream. Souce:
   Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/malai-kofta-mughlai-speciality
   -dish-served-1248493381b Sikh kebab is an Asian preparation where
   ground lamb or beef meat is wrapped around skewers and roasted on an
   open flame. Souce: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/seekh-kabab4-154602104c Shurpa
   or Shorba is a soup made with meat, vegetables, and spices in broth.
   Souce: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/shurpa-shorpa-soup-rich-lamb-v
   egetables-1875768625d Tandoor is a traditional Indian oven, used to
   cook naan and tikkas. Souce: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/tandoor-oven-tikka-masala-chic
   ken-naan-1854698554
   Full size image

   Rice became more popular than wheat during Mughal times. Khichri is one
   of the many preparations of rice mentioned the Ni’matnama [49]. It is a
   salty porridge made from rice and lentils, usually without spices. The
   preparation and ingredients used in khichri vary with region, and a lot
   of varieties of khichri can be found in homes all over India. Since it
   is nutritious and easy to digest, it is often fed to the ill. The
   Ni’matnama was not the first historical account of khichri. Selecus,
   when he was the infantry general to Alexander the Great, revealed that
   rice with pulses was extensively prepared in India, around 300 B.C.E.
   Further, it is also mentioned by Ibn Battuta as kishri from his stay in
   India in approximately 1350. In his description, kishri was a rice dish
   with mung beans (green gram). Afanasy Nikitin, a Russian merchant and
   one of the earliest Europeans to travel to India, has described khichri
   in his narrative—Khozheniye za tri moray (The Journey Beyond Three
   Seas). Khichri (refer to Fig. 6a) was popular during the Mughal period,
   especially under Jahangir [47]. Ain-i-Akbari, by Abu’l-Fazl ibn
   Mubarak, mentions seven variations for khichri. There is also mention
   of the dish along with biryani in the letters of Aurangzeb to his son,
   Bahadur Shah I.
   Fig. 6
   figure 6

   a Khichdi is a savoury rice porridge with the addition of lentils,
   vegetables, and spices. Source: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/famous-indian-food-khichdi-rea
   dy-serve-1629680485b Paneer do pyaza is a made of Indian cottage cheese
   and rich onion-based gravy. Source: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/paneer-do-pyaza-popular-punjab
   i-vegetarian-1263154453c Mutton do pyaza is made of lamb meat and
   seasoned with lots of onions.
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/mutton-do-pyaza-two-onions-122
   6282581
   Full size image

   Nushka-i-Shahjahani or Nushka u Namak is another cookbook that has
   recorded the recipes prepared in the kitchens of the emperor Shah
   Jahan—from breads and stews to sweetmeats. The ten chapters on food
   describe the varieties of breads, pottages, meat dishes, and other rice
   preparations like pulao and zerbiryans. Among the breads, there are
   recipes for naan (leavened oven-baked flatbread) and roti (round
   flatbread made from wholemeal flour), but no mention of paratha, a
   flatbread made of layers of cooked dough (hence, paratha was a later
   addition to Indian breads). Meat dishes were of two categories: qaliyas
   and do pyazas. Do pyazas (refer to Fig. 6b and 6c) got their name from
   the preparation, where piyaz (onion) is added twice (do) in the
   process. Kebabs, porridges, and omelettes are also mentioned. The end
   of the collection features preserves like jams and pickles, fried
   breads, sweets, and puddings. Finally, a few basic techniques for
   making yogurt and cheese curds are included. Paneer (or Panir) is an
   example of a cheese that is extensively used in Indian cooking,
   especially in vegetarian dishes as a protein source. The cheese curd
   for Paneer is made by curdling milk with a fruit- or vegetable-based
   acid (like lime juice).

   Khulasat-i Makulat u Mashrubat or Alwan-i Ni’mat or Khwan-i Alwan-i
   Ni’mat is a cookbook from the times of Aurangzeb’s reign. It has forty
   chapters, each describing a category of a course, including nan-ha
   (breads), qaliya and do pyaza (meat curries), sag (greens, refer to
   Fig. 7a), bharta (mashes, see Fig. 7b), dal (pulses and lentils),
   zerbiryan (layered rice dish), khandawi (savoury cakes made from pulses
   or gram flour, refer to Fig. 7d), salan-ha-i hindi (sauced-based dishes
   of India), khichri, shola (dish with rice, meat, pulses and
   vegetables), kulthi (sweet sticky rice), thuli (sweet thick preparation
   with milk and flour), tahiri (rice and meat dish), halim (meaty stew
   made with wheat and barley, refer to Fig. 8a), kashk (gruel with wheat
   and meat), ash (pottages), bara (fried cakes), jughrat wa sikharn
   (yogurt based dishes), shirbirinj (rice pudding of Iranian origin,
   refer to Fig. 8b), firni, faluda (a cold dessert made with milk, rose
   syrup, vermicelli and basil seeds, refer to Fig. 8c), panbhatta (a
   dessert made from fried soaked rice in sherbet), sambusa, puri (fried
   bread), gulgula and khajur (sweet dumplings), malida (sweet powdery
   mixture made of dough), shirni (sweetmeats), murabba (jams), and achar
   (pickles). In addition, there are chapters on basic activities, like
   shelling coriander. A lot of the dishes are drawn from the earlier
   cookbooks, notably the breads, meat curries, rice dishes, khichri, and
   jams and pickles. From the unique preparations mentioned in this book,
   sag, khandawi, salan, shirbirinj, and phirni are common preparations in
   Indian kitchens today. Dal has become a staple, especially in
   vegetarian households as a protein source. Salan, specifically mirchi
   ka salan (a curry of chillies in peanut gravy, refer to Fig. 7c), is
   served with biryani. Faluda has also been popularized and is made on
   special occasions. It is usually topped with ice cream, and a
   particular variation calls for the addition of jelly cubes in the
   sherbet.
   Fig. 7
   figure 7

   a Sarson ka sag with makki ki roti is a special preparation in the
   north of India, eaten during winters. The curry is made of mustard
   greens with sauteed onion and garlic. Makki ki roti is basically a
   flatbread made with ground corn. Source: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/makki-ki-roti-sarson-ka-sag-77
   4826045b Baingan ka bharta is mashed roasted eggplant that is then
   sauteed with onions, chilli and spices. Source: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/baingan-bharta-roasted-mashed-
   eggplant-black-1837782358c Mirchi ka salan was a popular dish in the
   Mughal kitchens, eaten with rice preparations. Even today, mirchi ka
   salan is served with biryani across the country. Source: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/hyderabadi-mirchi-ka-salan-gre
   en-chilly-1494080111d Khandavi is a snack from Maharashtra and Gujarat
   made by rolling sheets of steamed batter of gram flour and yogurt into
   bite-sized pieces. Source: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/khandvi-gujarati-patuli-dahiva
   di-suralichi-vadi-1460691638
   Full size image
   Fig. 8
   figure 8

   a Halim is a slow-cooked stew made up of grains, meat and lentils. It
   is eaten to break fasts during the month of Ramadan owing to its high
   nutritional value. Source: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/haleem-spices-herbs-1488278681
   b Sher Birinj is a dessert originating in central Asia. It is a rice
   pudding flavoured with rose water, almonds, cinnamon and cardamom.
   Source: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/pudding-shir-berenj-afghan-del
   icious-dessert-1956784180c Falooda is an Indian dessert made with rose
   syrup, milk, vermicelli noodles and sweet basil seeds, topped with ice
   cream. It is commonly sold on the streets by vendors in India. Source:
   Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/pink-sweet-strawberry-falooda-
   1779708683
   Full size image

   Today, cities like Delhi, Lucknow, Kolkata, and Hyderabad boast the
   best Biryanis. There are a lot of similarities in its preparations
   across the country—the use of nutmeg, cinnamon, cardamom, and cloves
   for aroma, adding saffron to colour the rice, and the flavour developed
   by cooking meat and vegetables with rice. Despite similarities, the
   differences are evident. The Hyderabadi Biryani is a spicy preparation,
   made with Basmati rice, which adds to the aroma, and the flavours of
   saffron and coconut dominate. It is served with brinjal (eggplant)
   gravy. The Kolkata Biryani also uses Basmati rice and saffron, but it
   is the use of meat and ghee (clarified butter) that defines the taste.
   Potatoes and boiled eggs are also added. The Lucknowi Biryani does not
   use Basmati rice and uses a paste made from curd and cashew nut along
   with the aromatics like star anise and nutmeg. The flavour of saffron
   is not as pronounced, and the Lucknowi Biryani is served with meat
   gravy.

   Mughals ruled the majority of Northern and Northwestern India, but
   their dominion was not as powerful in Southern India. However, this did
   not affect their cuisine from spreading into the south. Nobles from
   courts of Nawabs and other rulers of Southern India travelled to cities
   under the Mughal rule as diplomats and brought back with them accounts
   of food eaten and, sometimes, the recipes. The Mughal dishes made in
   Southern India often had a different set of ingredients or different
   methods of preparation.

   Modern Indian cuisine has incorporated many dishes from Mughal
   kitchens. With the Mughal invasion, there was an increase in the
   consumption of rice, which has led to a decrease in dependency on
   wheat. As a result, rice has become the staple crop in India and Indian
   cuisine lacks identity without it. Mughals also introduced a wide
   variety of desserts and sweetmeats. India boasts a wide range of
   milk-based sweets and desserts, and most of these dishes originated in
   the Mughal times. Hence, the Mughal era was arguably the time that
   shaped Indian cuisine as it is today.

European colonization

   When Mughals were reigning most of India, the Portuguese slowly started
   building their colonial empire. Unlike Mughals who intended to own the
   land and live here, the Portuguese wanted to send profits to their
   homeland. Spices were one of the main reasons that the Europeans sought
   a sea route to the Indian subcontinent. It was a powerful product in
   the trade market, and establishing trade with India was deemed
   necessary. However, the opulence and wealth of kings and the royal
   class changed their intentions and colonisation became a priority over
   trade [9].

   In 1498, Vasco da Gama reached the Malabar Coast of Calicut, a bustling
   port where the trade of spices, cloth, and a variety of extravagant
   goods took place between Hindu, Arab, and Chinese merchants [12]. As
   the Portuguese Empire expanded, trade of plants, animals, and ideas
   became common at ports. This was called the Columbian Exchange and was
   paramount in shaping the cuisine of various regions [5]. In 1510, after
   seizing Goa, they made it their capital of Estado de India (State of
   India). Soon after, spices were grown all along the Malabar Coast for
   trade. A lot of customs and traditions of Hinduism and Islam were
   questioned and eradicated [31]. Those that could not be eliminated were
   banned. They questioned the refusal of eating pork and beef and
   introduced a variety of dishes cooked with those meats. They also did
   away with the Hindu tradition of cooking rice without salt. Growing
   tulsi (holy basil) was banned.

   Cheese was introduced to India by the Portuguese. Bandel cheese is a
   smoked semi-soft cheese made from cow’s milk. It has a dry, crumbly
   texture and is one of the very few Western-style cheeses indigenous to
   India. Another creation of the Portuguese in India is the cheese curd
   called chhana [26]. However, it has been argued that the practice of
   curdling milk had been practised earlier. There is little doubt that a
   Portuguese cheese similar to chhana was the inspiration for a variety
   of Bengali sweets like rasgulla and Sandesh (refer to Fig. 9a and b)
   [41, 42]. Rasgulla is a ball-shaped dumpling made of semolina dough and
   chhana, which is boiled in light sugar syrup till the syrup steeps into
   the dumpling. They are then stored in sugar syrup, often flavoured with
   saffron strands or rosewater [45]. Rasgulla is known as Rasagola in
   Odisha, another state in the eastern part of India, and recent research
   also indicates that Rasagola was prepared in Jagannath Temple in Odisha
   in the thirteenth century AD. Sandesh, a sweet dish, has been mentioned
   in medieval Bengali literature, including Krittibas’ Ramayana, but the
   original dish was most likely very different from the current version.
   The modern-day Sandesh is presumably made with chhana cheese, but there
   are other preparations of sandesh without chhana, with just milk and
   sugar. Normally, sandesh is made by tossing chhana in sugar over low
   heat. In some cases, use of khejur gur [3] as a sweeter has been
   mentioned.
   Fig. 9
   figure 9

   a Rasgulla is a Bengali/Odia sweet made of dumplings of chhena and
   semolina flour and cooked in sugar syrup. Source: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/bowl-full-rasgulla-pistachios-
   food-table-1338243359b Sandesh is a Bengali sweet made by moulding
   chhena and sugar in different shapes. It can be flavoured with saffron
   and cardamom and topped with chopped almonds. Source: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/assortment-sandesh-traditional
   -bengali-sweets-prepared-279675779
   Full size image

   The greatest gift to Indian cuisine by the Portuguese was perhaps the
   Columbian Trade which introduced crops like potatoes, okra, chillies,
   pineapples, papaya, cashew, peanuts, maize, guava, custard apples, and
   sapodilla. Tomatoes were not native to India and are believed to have
   been brought in through trade with other Asian empires, who in turn
   acquired them through trade with Spain. Most gravies in Indian curries
   today are tomato-based. Potatoes have been integrated into modern
   Indian cuisine as if it were a native plant [5]. India was the third
   largest producer of potato in 2007 at 26,280,000 tonnes and the third
   largest consumer at 17,380,730 tonnes in 2005, according to FAOSTAT,
   Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations [18]. Maize has
   also been adopted in Indian cuisine. Corn roasted on the cob is a
   popular street food seasoned with lime, salt, and red chilli powder.
   Certain west-Indian dishes call for kernels of corn in the recipes and
   cornflour is used to make a flatbread called makki ki roti (refer to
   Fig. 7a) in Punjab.

   There is a strong Portuguese influence in Goan cuisine, and many
   preparations are adaptations of Portuguese dishes. The dish carne de
   vina d’alhos transformed to vindaloo (refer to Fig. 10a), which is a
   sweet and sour, but very spicy pork curry. Unlike the Portuguese
   preparation, vindaloo was made dry, so that it could be carried on long
   journeys. Caldo Verde, a Portuguese soup of potato and kale, is made in
   Goa with the same name, but is spicier, with the addition of ginger and
   black pepper. Also, kale is replaced by spinach in the soup. Xacuti
   Chicken (refer to Fig. 10b) is a Goan curry made with a paste of
   crushed peanuts, grated coconut, and a complex spice mix. A similar
   Portuguese dish is Chacuti de Galinha. The Portuguese also introduced a
   few types of breads, for example, the pau (oven-baked bread rolls).
   Many street foods across the country use pau today, like the vada pau
   (fried balls of mashed potato and spices served with different relishes
   in a bread roll, see Fig. 11a) and bhaji pau (tomato and potato-based
   tangy spicy curry served with bread roll roasted in butter, see
   Fig. 11b). Bibinca is a Portuguese baked dessert, where seven layers of
   cake made with flour, sugar, ghee, egg yolk, and coconut milk are
   stacked over each other to make a pudding. It is Goan tradition to make
   Bibinca at Christmas [42].
   Fig. 10
   figure 10

   a Chicken Vindaloo is a spicy, aromatic Goan curry adapted from the
   Portuguese Carne de vinha d'alhos. Source: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/chicken-vindaloo-spinach-black
   -bowl-on-1933658453b Chicken Xacuti is another Goan curry made with
   chicken, poppy seeds, toasted coconut shredding, black pepper, chilli,
   and other spices. Source: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/chicken-xacuti-classic-dish-go
   a-region-1639569403
   Full size image
   Fig. 11
   figure 11

   a Vada Pau is a famous Maharashtrian snack. It is a fried ball of
   spiced mash of boiled potatoes served in a bread roll with green chilli
   chutney, garlic chutney and fried green chilli. It is often eaten
   alongside chai (tea). Source: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/masala-cutting-chai-bombay-vad
   a-paav-1909642918b Bhaji Pau is another Maharashtrian street food made
   up of a spiced tomato and potato curry, served with bread rolls toasted
   on a pan with butter. Source: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/pav-bhaji-fast-food-dish-india
   -396513787
   Full size image

   Coloquios dos simples e drogas da India by Garcia de Orta, who served
   as the physician to the Portuguese viceroy to India, describes a lot of
   ingredients used in India. There are notes on pepper, banana, galangal,
   turmeric, betel, bhaang (preparation of cannabis, see Fig. 12),
   camphor, and asafoetida. He describes the excess use of asafoetida in
   India, especially in Hindu kitchens, and notes the extremely pungent
   smell of the dried latex of a Ferula herb [2]. The preparation of
   bananas involved roasting them and then serving them with wine and
   cinnamon. In another dish, bananas were cut in half, fried in sugar,
   and served with cinnamon sprinkled on top. The widespread use of bhaang
   was also noted adequately.
   Fig. 12
   figure 12

   Source: Shutterstock
   https://www.shutterstock.com/image-photo/hindu-priests-prepare-bhang-mi
   lk-on-653747197

   Bhaang being prepared by Hindu priests for consumption during the
   festival of Holi. It is prepared by crushing cannabis leaves with
   sweetened milk.
   Full size image

   Following the Dutch entry into the trade market of the East Indies, the
   French established trade with India [50] and made Pondicherry their
   capital. Their legacy is visible in the local cuisine there. Ragout (a
   stew flavoured heavily with garlic and aromatics) and rum-soaked
   Christmas fruitcake are some of the French dishes incorporated in the
   cuisine of Pondicherry. Meen puyabaisse is a local preparation of the
   French dish Fish Bouillabaisse.

   Like the previous colonisers, the British also started with trade
   intentions. They first docked at the port of Surat and this became
   their first trading establishment in India. This trade mainly involved
   the export of silk, sugar, salt, opium, and tea and the import of
   English products like ham, cheese, beer, and wine to supply the English
   population in India. After the decisive Battle of Plassey in 1757, the
   British managed to drive the French away from Bengal and laid a strong
   foundation for their future supremacy [14]. The British also overthrew
   the Dutch from Bengal in the mid-eighteenth century, and the thriving
   Dutch trade under Mughal patronisation came to an end [37].

   The most notable effect of the British on Indian cuisine is found in
   the field of brewing. Taverns opened by the British served wine, beer,
   rum, and other British spirits. Punch was a popular drink served at
   such places. It was made by mixing five ingredients – arrack,
   rosewater, citron juice, sugar, and spices, resulting in the name
   paanch (means five in Hindi).

   Beer, especially ale, was a popular beverage among the British in
   India. Later, the antimalarial properties of quinine were discovered
   and it was added to soda water, giving birth to tonic. It was paired
   with gin and served as gin and tonic at clubs. There are speculations
   that gimlet (gin with lime juice) was first made in India. The first
   brewery in India was established in the Solan District of Himachal
   Pradesh in 1830 and twelve breweries were established in India in the
   following fifty years.

   The British were fond of tea and most of it was exported to England
   from the plantations in China. The British discovered tea growing as a
   wild plant in Northeastern parts of India where the locals used it in
   pickling and infused it in dishes. Tea plantations were then set up by
   the British in Assam, which spread to Darjeeling in the Himalayas,
   Nilgiri Hills in Southern India, and even to Sri Lanka. However, the
   drink was not common among the Indian population. It was only after the
   forced departure of the British that officials realized the surplus in
   fields that were previously farmed to export to Britain [19]. The
   Indians took their tea with milk and spices, which is now consumed
   today under the name chai. A similar story follows the cultivation of
   coffee in Southern India, but its growth was not as pronounced as that
   of tea, because coffee was mainly planted to meet the needs of locals.

   The British also grew crops like oranges, carrots, cauliflower,
   spinach, and cabbage, which have found their way into Indian kitchens.
   Omelettes became famous as breakfasts served in clubs, where they would
   be made with minced onions and chillies.

   As time passed and the British ruled over the country, Christian
   missionaries found a true mission in converting the Hindu population to
   Christianity. Several internal problems like the caste system,
   practices of untouchability, oppression of certain sections of the
   population, lack of access to health care, and so on opened the doors
   for conversion to Christianity. Along with educational and health care
   facilities, the converted Christians also started imitating English
   food habits. On the other hand, there evolved a community of
   Anglo-Indians who adopted most of the English practices and cultures.
   They have been attributed a distinct cuisine that involved preparing
   English ingredients in Indian ways [9]. Roasted beef, meat and potato
   curry, pepper water or rasam (spicy beef broth), jalfrezi (meat or fish
   stir-fried in a dry sauce along with vegetables), and dry fry (beef
   cooked with onions, tomatoes, and spices in very little oil) are some
   common dishes of the Anglo-Indian cuisine. Rasam and jalfrezi are
   popular in India even today. They also cooked Portuguese inspired Goan
   dishes like the vindaloo, balchow (meat or seafood cooked in spicy
   tomato chilli sauce), and foogath (vegetables sautéed with onion,
   garlic and mustard seeds) and celebrated Christmas with roast turkey or
   duck and plum pudding. In certain ways, Anglo-Indian cuisine was an
   introduction to pan-Indian cuisine.

Conclusion

   The paper attempted to present a historical review of the diversity of
   food cooked in India. The paper is a small attempt at bringing together
   several scattered historical pieces of information related to how food
   evolved in India. While the pressure of not adequately providing
   ‘gastrosemantics’ [25], i.e. how a culture orchestrates the
   centralisation of food through a well-organized attempt to bring
   together the philosophy, consumption, beauty and transmission of food
   cultures, cannot be undermined, the satisfaction of making a shot at it
   is nevertheless immense. Not many mainstream journal articles are
   available on Indian Cuisine, and this study is by no means an
   exhaustive study of the History of Indian Cuisine. It is a fine line
   between risking oversimplification and focusing only on a certain era
   or a region, but that has been overcome here by focusing on a few
   decisive aspects of every era while keeping a note of developments
   elsewhere in the subcontinent. A few historical and philosophical
   aspects of the cultures associated with the history are highlighted to
   explain some of the culinary preferences and food habits. Future
   researchers can investigate some of the areas this paper has opened. As
   languages of the past begin being understood, it will be worth closely
   looking at manuscripts from the Vedic eras for culinary culture. From
   the understanding that religious practices often had a culinary aspect,
   studying the religion would inevitably teach us about the food and the
   ingredients available to the population. It would also be helpful to
   break the subcontinent down to meaningful regions and confine the study
   of the development of cuisine to particular regions. Lastly, since food
   politics in India has recently gained some research interest, it will
   be worth exploring how historically food politics has been played out
   in the country.

Availability of data and materials

   Not applicable.

References

    1. Achaya KT. The story of our food. Hyderabad: Universities Press
       (India) Limited; 2003.
       Google Scholar
    2. Asafetida. Scientific American. 1857;12:152.
       http://www.jstor.org/stable/24952035. Accessed 12 Feb 2020.
    3. Banerji C. A sweet fragrance in winter. Gastronomica. 2012;12:83–6.
       https://doi.org/10.1525/GFC.2012.12.1.83.
       Article  Google Scholar
    4. Bennett C. Cannabis and the soma solution. Waterville, OR: Trine
       Day; 2010.
       Google Scholar
    5. Boivin N, Crowther A, Prendergast M, Fuller DQ. Indian Ocean food
       globalisation and Africa. Afr Archaeol Rev. 2014;31:547–81.
       https://doi.org/10.1007/s10437-014-9173-4.
       Article  Google Scholar
    6. Brill A. Rabbi on the ganges: a Jewish-Hindu encounter. London:
       Lexington Books; 2020.
       Google Scholar
    7. Brough J. Soma and Amanita muscaria. Bull Sch Orient Afr Stud.
       1971;34:331–62.
       Article  Google Scholar
    8. Brown P. Anglo-Indian food and customs. New Delhi: Penguin Books
       India; 1998.
       Google Scholar
    9. Chazan M, Lehner M. An ancient analogy: pot baked bread in ancient
       Egypt and Mesopotamia. Paléorient. 1990;16:21–35.
       Article  Google Scholar
   10. Collier D. The great Mughals and their India. Hay House India;
       2016.
   11. Crosby AW. The Columbian exchange: biological and cultural
       consequences of 1492. Westport, Connecticut: Greenwood Publishing
       Group; 2003.
       Google Scholar
   12. Crowley R. Conquerors: how Portugal seized the Indian ocean and
       forged the first global empire. Faber & Faber; 2015.
   13. Dutt RC. From the earliest times to the sixth century BC. In:
       Jackson AV, editor. History of India. The Grolier Society, London,
       1906
   14. Edwardes M. The battle of plassey and the conquest of Bengal.
       Pickle Partners Publishing; 2017.
   15. Ellison R. Some thoughts on the diet of Mesopotamia from c 3000–600
       BC. Iraq. 1983;45:146–50.
       Article  Google Scholar
   16. Fairservis WA. The script of the Indus Valley civilization. Sci Am.
       1983;248:58–67.
       Article  Google Scholar
   17. Falk H. Soma i and ii. Bull Sch Orient Afr Stud. 1989;52:77–90.
       Article  Google Scholar
   18. FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization). International Year of the
       Potato 2008, New Light on a Hidden Treasure. In: Food and
       agriculture organization of the United Nations. 2009.
       https://www.fao.org/3/i0500e/i0500e00.htm. Accessed 10 Mar 2020.
   19. Fielder CH. On the rise, progress, and future prospects of tea
       cultivation in British India. J Stat Soc Lond. 1869;32:29–37.
       Article  Google Scholar
   20. Forster EM. A passage to India. Pearson Education India; 1969.
   21. Gangal K. Models of the Neolithic dispersal in Southern Asia
       (Doctoral dissertation, Newcastle University). 2015.
       http://theses.ncl.ac.uk/jspui/handle/10443/2905.
   22. Gommans JJ. Mughal warfare: Indian frontiers and highroads to
       Empire 1500–1700. London: Routledge; 2002.
       Book  Google Scholar
   23. Jarrige JF, Meadow RH. The antecedents of civilization in the Indus
       Valley. Sci Am. 1980;243:122–37.
       Article  Google Scholar
   24. Jha DN. The myth of the holy cow. New York: Verso; 2002.
       Google Scholar
   25. Khare RS. Food with saints: an aspect of Hindu gastrosemantics. In:
       Khare RS, editor. The eternal food: Gastronomic ideas and
       experiences of Hindus and Buddhists. Albany: State University of
       New York Press; 1992. p. 27–52.
       Google Scholar
   26. Krondl M. The sweetshops of Kolkata. Gastronomica. 2010;10:58–65.
       Article  Google Scholar
   27. Mehta JM. Vedic wisdom. New Delhi: V & S Publishers; 2013.
       Google Scholar
   28. Narayanan D. Cultures of food and gastronomy in Mughal and
       post-Mughal India [dissertation on the Internet]. Heidelberg:
       Ruprecht-Karls-Universität Heidelberg; 2015 [cited 2022 Mar 29].
       https://archiv.ub.uni-heidelberg.de/volltextserver/19906/1/Pub_Diss
       _Narayanan_07.12.2015_F.pdf
   29. Narayanan D. What was Mughal cuisine? Defining and analysing a
       culinary culture. Interdisziplinäre Zeitschrift für
       Südasienforschung. 2016. https://doi.org/10.11588/izsa.2016.1.842.
   30. Nemet-Nejat KR. Daily life in ancient Mesopotamia. Westport:
       Greenwood Publishing Group; 1998.
       Google Scholar
   31. Panikkar KM. Malabar and the Portuguese. New Delhi: Voice of India;
       1929.
   32. Parpola A. The Indus script: a challenging puzzle. World Archaeol.
       1986;17:399–419. https://doi.org/10.1080/00438243.1986.9979979.
       Article  Google Scholar
   33. Piggott S. Prehistoric India to 1000 b. C. Harmondsworth: Penguin
       Books; 1950.
       Google Scholar
   34. Pokras RS. The medical anthropology of the anti-aging soma and
       haoma of the Indian Samhitas. Br Cactus Succulent J. 1991;9:92–7.
       Google Scholar
   35. Prakash O. Food and drinks in ancient India: from earliest times to
       c 1200 AD. Delhi: Munshi Ram Manohar Lal; 1961.
       Google Scholar
   36. Prakash O. Economy and food in ancient India. Part II: Food. Delhi:
       Bharatiya Vidya Prakashan; 1987.
       Google Scholar
   37. Prakash O. The Dutch east India company and the economy of Bengal,
       1630–1720. Princeton: Princeton University Press; 2014.
       Google Scholar
   38. Sarkar P, Dh LK, Dhumal C, Panigrahi SS, Choudhary R. Traditional
       and ayurvedic foods of Indian origin. J Ethnic Foods.
       2015;2:97–109. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jef.2015.08.003.
       Article  Google Scholar
   39. Sathyamala C. Meat-eating in India: Whose food, whose politics, and
       whose rights? Policy Fut Educ. 2019;17:878–91.
       https://doi.org/10.1177/1478210318780553.
       Article  Google Scholar
   40. Sen CT. Feasts and fasts: a history of food in India. London:
       Reaktion Books; 2014.
       Google Scholar
   41. Sen CT. The Portuguese influence on Bengali cuisine. In: Food on
       the move: Proceedings of the Oxford symposium on food and cookery
       1996. Devon: Prospect Books; 1997. p. 288–298.
   42. Sengupta J. Nation on a platter: the culture and politics of food
       and cuisine in colonial Bengal. Mod Asian Stud. 2010;44:81–98.
       https://doi.org/10.1017/S0026749X09990072.
       Article  Google Scholar
   43. Seo YR, Kim YJ. Oriental traditional philosophy and food function.
       In: Ghosh D, Bagchi D, Konishi T, editors. Clinical aspects of
       functional foods and nutraceuticals. Florida: CRC Press; 2014. p.
       413–22.
       Chapter  Google Scholar
   44. Sharma HK, Tripathi BM, Pelto PJ. The evolution of alcohol use in
       India. AIDS Behav. 2010;14:8–17.
       https://doi.org/10.1007/s10461-010-9727-7.
       Article  Google Scholar
   45. Sikund K. Food culture in Calcutta. India Int Centre Quart.
       1990;17:220–8.
       Google Scholar
   46. Smil V. Eating meat: evolution, patterns, and consequences. Popul
       Dev Rev. 2002;28:599–639.
       https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1728-4457.2002.00599.x.
       Article  Google Scholar
   47. Thackston WM, editor and translator. The Jahangirnama: memoirs of
       Jahangir, emperor of India. New York and Oxford: Oxford University
       Press (in association with the Freer Gallery of Art and the Arthur
       M. Sackler Gallery), 1999.
   48. Thackston WM. The Baburnama: memoirs of Babur, prince and emperor.
       Random House Publishing Group; 2007.
   49. Titley NM. The Ni’matnama manuscript of the Sultans of Mandu: The
       Sultan’s book of delights. Oxon: Routledge; 2004.
       Book  Google Scholar
   50. Ward K. Networks of empire: forced migration in the Dutch East
       India Company. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press; 2009.
       Google Scholar
   51. Wasson RG. The soma of the Rig Veda: what was it? Journal of the
       American Oriental Society. 1971: https://doi.org/10.2307/600096.

   Download references

Acknowledgements

   Not applicable

Funding

   The authors did not receive any funding for the study.

Author information

Authors and Affiliations

    1. Electrical and Electronics Engineering, BITS Pilani Hyderabad
       Campus, Hyderabad, India
       Vishu Antani
    2. Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence, University
       of Exeter, Exeter, UK
       Vishu Antani
    3. Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, BITS Pilani Hyderabad
       Campus, Hyderabad, India
       Santosh Mahapatra

   Authors
    1. Vishu Antani
       View author publications
       You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar
    2. Santosh Mahapatra
       View author publications
       You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar

Contributions

   The first author (VA) has collected the data and written the sections
   on results and discussion. The second author (SM) has analysed the
   data, has written the introduction, conclusion, and abstract sections
   of the study, and has proofread the manuscript. All authors read and
   approved the final manuscript.

Corresponding author

   Correspondence to Santosh Mahapatra.

Ethics declarations

Ethics approval and consent to participate

   Not applicable.

Consent for publication

   Not applicable.

Competing interests

   There is no issue of competing interests.

Additional information

Publisher's Note

   Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in
   published maps and institutional affiliations.

Rights and permissions

   Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons
   Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing,
   adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as
   long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the
   source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if
   changes were made. The images or other third party material in this
   article are included in the article's Creative Commons licence, unless
   indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is
   not included in the article's Creative Commons licence and your
   intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the
   permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the
   copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence,
   visithttp://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.

   Reprints and Permissions

About this article

   Verify currency and authenticity via CrossMark

Cite this article

   Antani, V., Mahapatra, S. Evolution of Indian cuisine: a
   socio-historical review. J. Ethn. Food 9, 15 (2022).
   https://doi.org/10.1186/s42779-022-00129-4

   Download citation
     * Received: 06 February 2021
     * Accepted: 18 April 2022
     * Published: 28 April 2022
     * DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/s42779-022-00129-4

Share this article

   Anyone you share the following link with will be able to read this
   content:
   (BUTTON) Get shareable link

   Sorry, a shareable link is not currently available for this article.

   (BUTTON) Copy to clipboard

   Provided by the Springer Nature SharedIt content-sharing initiative

Keywords

     * Indian cuisine
     * Socio-historical review
     * Prehistoric
     * Vedic
     * Mughal
     * European influence

   Download PDF

   Advertisement
   Advertisement

Journal of Ethnic Foods

   ISSN: 2352-6181

Contact us

     * Submission enquiries: Access here and click Contact Us
     * General enquiries: info@biomedcentral.com

     * Read more on our blogs
     * Receive BMC newsletters
     * Manage article alerts
     * Language editing for authors
     * Scientific editing for authors

     * Policies
     * Accessibility
     * Press center

     * Support and Contact
     * Leave feedback
     * Careers

Follow BMC

     * BMC Twitter page
     * BMC Facebook page
     * BMC Weibo page

   By using this website, you agree to our Terms and Conditions,
   California Privacy Statement, Privacy statement and Cookies policy.
   Manage cookies/Do not sell my data we use in the preference centre.
   Springer Nature

   © 2023 BioMed Central Ltd unless otherwise stated. Part of Springer
   Nature.
