   #The Food Hog » 72 Indian street food dishes you absolutely have to try
   Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

   Skip to Content

   The Food Hog
   (BUTTON)

     * Blog
     * Eat-ineraries
     * Travel Bites
     * Street Food
     * Cooking
          + Recipes
          + 5-minute recipes
          + Vegan recipes
          + Desserts
     * Spices
     * Contact
          + Privacy Policy

72 Indian street food dishes you absolutely have to try

   34 Comments
   72 Indian street food dishes you absolutely have to try 72 Indian
   street food dishes you absolutely have to try

   Street food is an essential part of experiencing a new destination and
   its diverse culture but in India, street food is something more than
   just that. Here, Indian street food is a way of life. Every region,
   state, and even city has its own delicacies that are adored by locals
   that will tell you that the street food in their town is better than
   anything else you might try in India. And they are all right.

   Most Indian street food dishes consist of simple, easy-to-make dishes
   but that doesn’t mean that they won’t explode releasing an array of
   rich, exotic flavors in your mouth and leave you craving for more.
   India is like a giant, tasty labyrinth whose only exit is to eat your
   way out.

   I spent a year in India and was fortunate enough to travel across the
   country and taste hundreds of different Indian street food dishes and
   in this article, I’ll share my 74 favorites. I know it’s very long, but
   if it was shorter it wouldn’t do any justice to the dishes that would
   get leaved out. So from the delicious cheeses of Kashmir to the Dosas
   of Tamil Nadu, here are the best street food dishes in India.
   Contents show
   1. Indian Street Food that’s popular around the country
   1.1. Panipuri
   1.2. Aloo Chaat
   1.3. Samosa
   1.4. Honey chili potato
   1.5. Lassi
   1.6. Paan
   2. The best North Indian street food
   2.1. Chole Bhature
   2.2. Aloo Tikki
   2.3. Siddu
   2.4. Kalari Kulcha
   2.5. Tunday Kebab
   2.6. Aloo Ke Gutke
   2.7. Nagori Halwa Bedmi Puri
   2.8. Daulat Ki Chaat
   2.9. Kachori
   2.10. Nasirabaad Ka Kachori
   2.11. Mirchi Pakoda
   2.12. Matar Kulcha
   2.13. Bhalla Papdi
   2.14. Lakhanpur Bhalle
   2.15. Chicken Tikka
   2.16. Fire Paan
   2.17. Mutton Roll
   3. The best East Indian street food
   3.1. Kappa
   3.2. Singju
   3.3. Shapale
   3.4. Pork Bharta
   3.5. Mishti Doi
   3.6. Arsa Buhchiar
   3.7. Kinalas
   3.8. Ghugni Chaat
   3.9. Egg Rolls & Kathi Rolls
   3.10. Jhalmuri
   3.11. Momos
   3.12. Chow Mein
   3.13. Thukpa Soup
   3.14. Khar
   3.15. Silkworm stir-fry
   3.16. Chikhvi
   3.17. Sanpiau
   3.18. Litti Chokha
   4. The best Central Indian street food
   4.1. Mutton Paya Soup
   4.2. Poha – Jalebi
   4.3. Faraa
   4.4. Ragi muddle
   5. The best West Indian street food
   5.1. Bombay Duck
   5.2. Dabeli
   5.3. Bhelpuri
   5.4. Kanji Vada
   5.5. Misal Pav
   5.6. Moong Dal Bhaji
   5.7. Vada Pav
   5.8. Dahi Puri
   5.9. Pav Bhaji
   5.10. Kulfi Falooda Rabri
   5.11. Ice Gola
   5.12. Nitrogen Biscuit
   5.13. Ragda Pattice
   5.14. Sabudana Vada
   6. The best South Indian street food
   6.1. Akki Roti
   6.2. Paddu
   6.3. Kothu Parotta
   6.4. Pindi Vantalu (Muruku)
   6.5. Dal Vada
   6.6. Moong Dal Ladoo
   6.7. Dosa
   6.8. Mirchi Bajji
   6.9. Idli Sambar
   6.10. Ram Ladoo
   6.11. Idli vada
   6.12. Vellayappam
   6.13. Idli chili fry
   7. Tips for enjoying street food in India

Indian Street Food that’s popular around the country

Panipuri

   Where to find it?

   Across India.
   pani puri pani puri

   Pani Puri is one of the most popular street foods on the Indian
   subcontinent. It consists of round flatbreads (called puri) stuffed
   with a mix of chickpeas, onions, potatoes, chutney, chaat masala,
   chutney, and soupy water (pani). The mix of the ingredients, as well as
   the name of the dish varies from state to state. In Uttar Pradesh, this
   dish is known as Golgappa, in West Bengal, Phuchka, in Central India,
   it’s called Gup Chup, etc. Another popular Indian street food that you
   can find in all parts of the country is…

Aloo Chaat

   Where to find it?

   Across India.
   aloo chaat aloo chaat

   This simple potato-based snack is beloved everywhere on the
   subcontinent from Pakistan to Tamil Nadu and from Gujarat to
   Bangladesh. You can find an aloo chaat stall in pretty much every city
   in India. Aloo chaat is made by frying cubed potatoes and adding
   chutney and a myriad of local spices that vary from city to city. It’s
   a perfect snack for any part of the day and is super tasty.

Samosa

   Where to find it?

   Across India.

   Samosa is India’s most popular baked pastry and it’s so popular that
   you can find it in a lot of other places, like Burma, Indonesia,
   Central Asia, and even the southern and western parts of Africa. The
   pastry is stuffed with spiced potatoes, onions, peas, and lentils, and
   it comes in different shapes; triangular, half-moon, and cone,
   depending on the region. This delicious treat also happens to be one of
   the oldest snacks in the world.

   Do you enjoy exploring foreign exotic cuisines while traveling? Then
   you’ll definitely love our list of the best restaurants in Vientiane.

Honey chili potato

   Where to find it?

   Across India.

   This crispy-fried spicy potato dish cooked with bell peppers in a sweet
   and spicy sauce is one of the most popular Indo-Chinese snacks and
   appetizers. Honey chili potato originally derives from China but
   India’s version is just as tasty, if not tastier than its Chinese
   counterpart. It’s a perfect beer snack and a great appetizer because
   its perfect mix of sweet and spicy is a great appetite stimulant.

Lassi

   Where to find it?

   Across India.
   lassi lassi

   This refreshing, creamy drink is a mix of yogurt, water, spices, and/or
   fruits. It can be salty or sweet but you can also find different
   versions around India. Not only is lassi super-tasty but it’s also a
   great drink after a spicy meal because it contains a high amount of
   casein, a protein that removes the effects of capsaicin (that chilies
   component that makes you feel like you’re about to turn into a dragon
   and start spitting fire).

   Enjoying this post? Then you may also like our guide to Turkish street
   food.

Paan

   Where to find it?

   Across India.
   paan indian street food paan indian street food

   This simple snack is a local favorite not only across India but also in
   parts of Southeast Asia as well. Paan consists of an areca nut and
   berries, accompanied by different spices, wrapped in a betel leaf. But
   paan is more than just a snack. A lot of people also use it as a breath
   freshener, palate cleanser (supposedly, it’s great for digestion), and
   some people even use it due to its psychoactive effects. As you’ll see
   below, there are different variations of paan in different parts of
   India.

   Now that we covered some of the street food dishes that are popular in
   all parts of India, let’s see which are some of the most popular street
   food snacks in different regions.

The best North Indian street food

Chole Bhature

   Where to find it?

   Across India but for the best chole bhature, head to Punjab.
   chola bature chola bature

   What started as a quick snack available on street food stalls across
   Uttar Pradesh has quickly taken India by storm and can now be found
   pretty much anywhere. Chole bhature is a combo of chana masala and hot
   bhatura (fried bread made from maida). The dish is simple to make,
   tastes good, and is super cheap, hence, it’s no surprise that it became
   popular so quickly, especially in Punjab where you can find the best
   chole bhature in India.

Aloo Tikki

   Where to find it?

   Pretty much anywhere in North and West India, but for the best aloo
   tikki, head to Lucknow.
   aloo tikki aloo tikki

   When it comes to potato-based Indian street food, aloo tikki tops the
   charts. This delicious treat consists of bite-size potato pieces
   combined with tamarind, coriander, and chutney that will cause an
   incredible taste sensation in your mouth even though hearing the
   ingredients might not make you think so.

Siddu

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in the state of Himachal Pradesh, but for the best sidu, head
   to Manali.
   siddu Indian street food siddu Indian street food

   Sidu is an absolute favorite in Himachal Pradesh and if you try it,
   you’ll soon realize why. This wheat flour bread is the perfect winter
   snack (and winters in Himachal get pretty cold). Siddu is mostly served
   as a side dish but locals like to have it as a snack too. It’s usually
   served with ghee, green chutney, or meat curry.

Kalari Kulcha

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in the state of Jammu and Kashmir.
   kalari kulcha kalari kulcha

   Kalari is a tasty local cheese that can be found in Jammu and Kashmir.
   The cheese is sauteed in its own fat and is traditionally made from
   full-fat milk that’s separated using soured milk. Kalari kulcha is a
   round baked bread split open and filled with this cheese. It’s one of
   the most popular snacks in Kashmir but unfortunately, due to the
   isolation of this state, you can’t get it in a lot of other places.

Tunday Kebab

   Where to find it?

   In several different places around India, but for the best tunday
   kebab, head to Lucknow.
   tunde kebab tunde kebab

   Kebabs are probably the most relished non-vegetarian street food dish
   in Uttar Pradesh and the tunday kebab is the best of the best. This
   dish was invented to satisfy the culinary cravings of a dying Mughal
   emperor and was originally made by Haji Murad Ali, a one-handed chef
   which is why this kebab is called tunday kebab (tunde in Hindi means
   one-handed). This is definitely the softest kebab I have ever tried. In
   fact, it’s so soft that it can even give a foodgasm to a toothless
   person.

Aloo Ke Gutke

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Uttarakhand.
   aloo ke gutke aloo ke gutke

   Aloo ke gutke is one of the best kept-secrets of Paharian cuisine. It’s
   a potato-based dish that looks similar to aloo chaat but it actually
   tastes very different. The dish consists of potato cubes that are fried
   in mustard oil with red chilies and coriander. If you’re visiting
   Uttarakhand, this is one dish you absolutely can’t miss.

Nagori Halwa Bedmi Puri

   Where to find it?

   Mostly in North India, but for the best Nagori Halwa Bedmi Puri, head
   to Delhi.
   indian street food indian street food

   Nagori halwa bedmi puri actually consists of two different dishes that
   when combined together make one of the most popular local breakfasts in
   Delhi. The dish consists of a soft puri-like bread made of wheat flour
   filled with dal and a sweet-spicy potato gravy. This seemingly odd mix
   causes a flavorful sensation as soon as you smell it and once you try
   it, you might get addicted.

Daulat Ki Chaat

   Where to find it?

   Mostly in North India, but just like the previous dish, this is also a
   popular Delhi delicacy.

   If nagori halwa bedmi puri is Delhi’s favorite breakfast, then daulat
   ki chaat is probably Delhi’s favorite dessert. Unfortunately, this dish
   ultra-delicious creamy souffle is only available during the winter
   months (November-February). The dessert dish is made of raw milk mixed
   with cream. The mix needs 8-10 hours of cooling before it’s manually
   whisked until it becomes light and frothy. Finally, the milk mix is
   blended with khoya, saffron, and chenna before getting its final form.

Kachori

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in North India, but the dish originates from Uttar Pradesh.
   kachori kachori

   Kachori is usually made from maida but comes with different feelings in
   different regions with the most common ones being onion, potato, dal,
   and peas. This crunchy, deep-friend treat filled with hot gravy and
   spicy chutneys doesn’t look very appetizing but you’ll change your mind
   as soon as you taste it. After all, this Uttar Pradesh-originated dish
   spread like wildfire due to its unique taste and it’s even famous in
   most of West and East India, and even in parts of South India. In
   places like Rajasthan, there are even different variations of this
   popular dish, such as…

Nasirabaad Ka Kachori

   Where to find it?

   In Nasirabaad, Rajasthan.
   kachori Indian street food kachori Indian street food

   Even though kachoris originate from UP, they’re mega-popular in
   Rajasthan. That’s why, here, you can find a lot of crazy variations
   like the Nasirabaad ka kachori. This dish is the pride of the city of
   Nasirabaad. It’s very similar to the regular kachori but the main
   difference is that this kachori is giant and served with tamarind
   chutney.

Mirchi Pakoda

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Rajasthan but for the best one, head to Jodhpur.
   mirchi pakoda mirchi pakoda

   Mirchi Pakoda is a popular Rajasthani ‘fast Indian street food’ that is
   usually eaten as a side dish or a snack. The dish consists of a crispy,
   deep-fried coating stuffed with green chilies and potato or paneer.
   Combine it with some of the tasty local chutneys and you have one of
   the tastiest snacks of Rajasthan.

Matar Kulcha

   Where to find it?

   Mostly in North India, but the best one can be found at the markets of
   Delhi.
   matar kulcha matar kulcha

   In Hindi, matar means beans and kulcha is a type of flatbread.
   Together, they constitute one of Delhi’s most popular street food
   delicacies. The combination of a hot, soft flatbread and a juicy gravy
   garnished with tomato slices, ginger, and juliennes is guaranteed to
   enchant your taste buds.

Bhalla Papdi

   Where to find it?

   Across North India, but you’ll find the best bhalla papdi in Delhi and
   Uttar Pradesh.
   bhala papdi bhala papdi

   This sweet and sour dish is much more than just a popular Indian street
   food dish. You can see Bhalla papdi everywhere- on weddings, family
   functions, people’s homes, and of course on the street food stalls. The
   dish consists of a vada soaked in a thick mixture of spices, cashew
   nuts, and curd, topped with green and sweet tamarind chutney. You’ll
   inevitably notice this distinctive dish on any street and its
   appetizing look will make you try it sooner or later, so don’t try to
   resist.

Lakhanpur Bhalle

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Jammu and Kashmir.

   Apart from bad roads, long queues of trucks waiting for clearance and
   dusty streets, there’s another thing that makes Lakhanpur special. It’s
   bhalle; a delicious fried snack made of pulses served with shredded
   radish and the inevitable green chutney.

Chicken Tikka

   Where to find it?

   Across India, but the best chicken tikka comes from the place this dish
   originates from- the state of Punjab.

   No list of the best Indian street food can be complete without chicken
   tikka. This ultra-popular street consists of small pieces of grilled
   marinated chicken and it’s served either as a wrap, on a stick, or in a
   gravy. But whatever the serving is, chicken tikka is extremely
   flavorful and there’s a good reason why it’s one of the most popular
   non-vegetarian dishes in the whole country.

   Chicken Tikka can be found at street food stalls but also in a lot of
   restaurants. If you’re looking to prepare it as a main course dish,
   check out our recipe.

Fire Paan

   Where to find it?

   In numerous places around India with the most popular one being in CP,
   New Delhi.

   The fire paan at the street food stall at Connaught Place in New Delhi
   are one of the most popular street food attractions. It’s just like a
   regular paan flavored with a fruit/chocolate syrup set on fire and
   shoved in your mouth by the street food vendor. It certainly is one of
   the most unique street food experiences in India. Oh, and there’s also
   another frozen variation of this dish, perfect for Delhi’s ridiculously
   hot summers.

Mutton Roll

   Where to find it?

   In numerous locations around India, but you’ll find the best mutton
   rolls in Lucknow.
   by Sarkardurba02 CC by SA 4.0

   If you’re looking for a warm, savory non-vegetarian dish that explodes
   releasing irresistible flavors in your mouth, look no further. You
   won’t find anything better than the mutton roll, one of the most
   popular mutton-based street food dishes in India. The roll is prepared
   on a large gril called Tawa and served with a side of vegetables and a
   lemon wedge. You can get mutton rolls in numerous different locations
   around India, but if you want the best of the best, definitely visit
   Lucknow.

The best East Indian street food

Kappa

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Meghalaya.
   kappa Indian street food kappa Indian street food

   Kappa is a traditional Meghalayan stew made of chicken entrails
   prepared with cooking soda and an array of fresh garden spices. The
   main dish is prepared with chicken but some people make it with pork
   and buff too. The dish originates from the Garo tribe but nowadays it’s
   one of the most popular dishes in the entire state.

Singju

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Manipur.
   by Punshiba18 CC by SA 3.0

   This Meitei-originated dish has been widely adopted by most ethnic
   communities in the state of Manipur. Singju has a vegetarian and
   non-vegetarian version with the latter one being far more popular and
   the former one being reserved only for religious rituals where fish and
   meat is not allowed. The non-vegetarian version includes fermented
   fish, chilies, and an array of local seasonal vegetables and the
   vegetarian version has perilla seeds and chana powder instead of fish.

Shapale

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Sikkim.

   Shapale is a meat pie that originates from Tibet that looks like a
   large deep-fried momo. The exterior is crunchy while the interior is
   gooey, filled with meat that melts as soon as it touches your mouth.
   This Sikimmese ‘street food bestseller’ is usually served with red hot
   chili sauce and a rutang soup (made from bony meats).

Pork Bharta

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Tripura.
   pork food pork food

   Pork Bharta is one of the most popular dishes in Tripura. As the name
   suggests, the main ingredient is pork and the dish is prepared by
   boiling pork pieces mixed with chilies, ginger, a local plant leaf, and
   of course onions. Being so easy to make yet tasty, it’s easy to see how
   this dish became omnipresent on every street around Tripura.

Mishti Doi

   Where to find it?

   In numerous places around India but for the best one, definitely visit
   Kolkata.

   This tastebud-tickling fermented sweet is West Bengal’s favorite for a
   good reason. Mishti doi is prepared by boiling the milk until it
   becomes thick, after which it’s sweetened with sugar and left to
   ferment overnight. The dish is prepared and served in earthenware
   because it makes it easier for the water to evaporate and thicken the
   milk. Before trying it, be careful; its sweet and sour taste might make
   you addicted and leave you craving for more.

Arsa Buhchiar

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Mizoram.
   Indian street food Indian street food

   In Mizoram, Arsa Bunchiar is a lot more than just street food. It’s one
   of the most basic local staples. The dish is basically an advanced
   chicken porridge enriched with spicy rice (it’s kind of similar to
   khichdi) and a mix of local Mizo herbs. When traveling to Mizoram,
   trying this dish is practically inevitable.

Kinalas

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Nagaland.

   Naga cuisine is all about beef and pork and this stew is a proof of
   that. This juicy broth is made of beef/pork head and other entrails
   enhanced with brown sauce and a bunch of local spices and herbs. I know
   that hearing what the actual ingredients are doesn’t make this dish
   appetizing at all but no trip to Nagaland is complete without at least
   trying kinalas.

Ghugni Chaat

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in West Bengal.
   ghugni chaat recipe ghugni chaat recipe by Notoutofthebox CC by SA 4.0

   When it comes to street food in the eastern and northeastern parts of
   India, this list couldn’t be complete without ghugni chaat. This
   popular street food dish consists of dried white peas soaked in a
   delicious gravy and topped with some fresh vegetables and local herbs.
   The snack is 100% vegan and it’s one of the healthiest choices when it
   comes to street food.

Egg Rolls & Kathi Rolls

   Where to find it?

   Pretty much anywhere in India, but Kolkata is the absolute king of
   rolls.
   indian food indian food

   No trip to Kolkata is complete without trying at least one of the
   city’s mouth-watering rolls. Rolls in Kolkata come in many different
   shapes, sizes, and variations, but the two most popular one are the egg
   roll (a soft bread mixed in a raw egg and filled with onions, chilies,
   cucumbers, and other vegetables spiced up with chaat masala, lime, and
   a few other spices)

    and the chicken kathi roll (a roll with a delicately-prepared filling
   of chicken kebab and raw veggies that’s a real treat not only for the
   stomach but for the eyes too).

Jhalmuri

   jhal muri jhal muri

   Where to find it?

   Mostly in West Bengal and numerous other places around East India.

   Jhal muri is another one of Kolkata’s on-the-go snacks that can be
   found at almost every corner pretty much anywhere in West Bengal and
   Bangladesh. This beloved snack includes puffed rice cooked in an
   assortment of spices, vegetables, and bhujia. The rice is cooked in raw
   mustard oil that makes the rice juicier and gives it a nice, pungent
   taste.

Momos

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in India, but you’ll find the best momos in their ‘native
   country’, Sikkim.
   momos indian street food momos indian street food

   There’s a hard debate on the internet over where did momos originate
   from but everyone agrees that this is one of India’s favorite snacks.
   It has been widely accepted around India and north Indians have
   actually mastered the art of momo making to perfection and some of the
   momos in Delhi are almost as good as the ones you’ll get in Sikkim and
   the other northeast states. In case you don’t know what momos are, they
   are a tangy variation of hot dumplings filled with chicken, pork, beef,
   or veggies. Momos come in three variations; steamed, fried, and boiled
   but the most popular version is by far, the steamed one.

Chow Mein

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in India but the best chow mein street food stalls can be
   found in East and Northeast India.
   chow mein indian version chow mein indian version

   I know you might be thinking ‘isn’t chow mein Chinese?’ And yes you’re
   right, chow mein does originate from China. However, if you spent some
   time in India, you’ll know that all foreign food in India is doomed to
   be localized because of Indians’ infinite demands of giving the dish a
   local flavor. That’s why you get a spicy, rich-in onion pizza,
   only-chicken burgers with meat cooked in different kinds of masala,
   etc. A lot of these dishes don’t taste good to most foreigners, but
   chow mein is an exception. Similarly like the momos, the Indian
   rich-in-flavors version of chow mein is different but just as good as
   the original Chinese chow mein.

Thukpa Soup

   Where to find it?

   Mostly in Northeast India but you can also get it in different parts of
   the country.
   thukpa soup thukpa soup

   Thukpa is actually a Tibetian dish but the thukpa soup you get in
   Northeast India is slightly different but just as tasty. The soup is
   made of long, thick noodles, fresh vegetables, and strong local herbs
   and spices. The best place to try thukpa soup is probably the
   easternmost state in India, Arunachal Pradesh.

Khar

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Assam.

   Khaar is an Assamese dish made from raw papaya, taro, ginger-garlic
   paste, and jackfruit seeds sprinkled with banana peel’s ash extract
   (surprisingly similar to sodium bicarbonate) that gives this dish a
   very inviting aroma that just adds to the already refreshing flavor.

Silkworm stir-fry

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Assam and the neighboring states.
   silkworm stir fry silkworm stir fry

   When Assamese street food is the topic, the local favorite, silkworm
   sti-fry simply can’t be forgotten. This is one of the most exotic
   tribal delicacies in Assam and as the name suggests, it consists of a
   stir-fry based on silkworm larva as the main ingredient. The larva is
   fried until it gets a golden-brown color and crunchy texture and its
   flavor is enriched by using a myriad of local herbs and spices.

Chikhvi

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Tripura
   chikhvi chikhvi

   The northeast people love their bamboo shoots and pork and chikhvi is a
   prime example of this. Chikvi features the unavoidable pork pieces and
   bamboo shoots spiced with turmeric, rice flour paste, raw papayas,
   green chilies, and ginger and garlic pace. If you ever visit Tripura,
   your trip wouldn’t be complete without trying this aromatic dish.

Sanpiau

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Mizoram.

   By now, you’re probably starting to understand the northeastern cuisine
   that mostly relies on rice, bamboo shoots, and local herbs and spices
   which makes northeastern street food a lot more healthy than its
   ‘mainland’ counterparts. Sianpiau is another healthy street food from
   the far northeast. It’s a type of rice porridge spiced up with black
   pepper, fish sauce and coriander paste and topped with spring onions.
   You can get this popular street food in almost every corner of Mizoram.

Litti Chokha

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Bihar and in some other parts of India.

   Bihar might not be famous for its street food but the list of the best
   street food in East India wouldn’t be complete without Bihar’s simple
   yet delicious litt chokha. This spicy curry made from brinjal and
   mashed potato is served with litti and ghee and is enjoyed by locals
   for breakfast, dinner, and lunch.

The best Central Indian street food

Mutton Paya Soup

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Central India.
   mutton paya soup mutton paya soup

   Mutton Paya is one of the oldest and most delicious treats of Central
   India and arguably the tastiest street food dish in this part of the
   country. As the name suggests, this soup is made of lamb leg that’s
   tenderized to perfection and added in a bowl of flavorful local spices.
   The dish can be found anywhere in Central India, from street food
   stalls to restaurants.

Poha – Jalebi

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Central and West India.
   jalebi jalebi

   If you know a thing or two about street food you’ll inevitably notice
   that this dish combines two seemingly incompatible dishes. Namely, poha
   is a spicy flattened rice dish while jalebi is one of the most popular
   and most sugary sweets you can ever find. It’s one of those dishes that
   you have to be extremely open-minded to try, but if you ever do this,
   you’ll be in for a treat. The mix of sweet and salty makes this dish
   arguably the most contrasting street food India has to offer and
   actually, the primary breakfast choice of most people in Madhya
   Pradesh.

Faraa

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Chhattisgarh.

   Did you ever hear of steamed dumplings made of rice? This intriguing
   mix exists in Chhattisgarh, one of the least visited states in India.
   It looks like a chicken sausage, it feels like a momo, but it tastes
   different than anything you tried before. The recipe is relatively
   short but the dough preparation requires a lot of skill and patience
   which is more than enough to put this dish on the list of best street
   food dishes in India.

Ragi muddle

   Where to find it?

   In parts of Central and South India.
   ragmi mudde ragmi mudde

   Ragi muddle is Andhra Pradesh’s favorite staple. The dish consists of
   crispy ragi balls dipped in a flavorful tomato gravy. The dish consists
   of ragi, a finger millet, and a muddle which is a moist ball. Ragi has
   been used in these parts of India as a budget alternative of grain for
   ages and throughout the years it became one of the most popular street
   food dishes in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh but a lot of people eat it
   as a full meal too.

The best West Indian street food

Bombay Duck

   Where to find it?

   In Mumbai.
   bombay duck bombay duck

   I know what you might be thinking; duck meat is not very common in
   Indian cuisine. And you’re right. I can’t think of any dishes that
   contain duck meat. The truth is the Bombay duck doesn’t have any duck
   meat in it. It’s made of small strips of deep-fried fish prepared in
   red curry and lightly battered with a crispy exterior while remaining
   soft on the inside. This is one of the best seafood street food dishes
   in India and an absolute must when visiting Mumbai.

Dabeli

   Where to find it?

   In Gujarat, parts of Western India, and Bangalore.

   The rest of India always jokes with the names Gujarati dishes have and
   it’s true; Guju foods sound a bit intimidating just like this one
   (Dabeli) but most of them are quite tasty. Dabeli is basically a spicy
   potato sandwich topped with crispy noodles, onions, and spicy peanuts
   served with namkeen. The dish preparation requires a special dabeli
   masala, garlic, and tamarind chutney and a flat barbecue called Tawa.

Bhelpuri

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in West India.
   bhelpuri bhelpuri

   I know it sounds like a cliché but bhelpuri is like a chaotic party of
   flavors inside your mouth. This west Indian snack might luck some
   things but flavors sure isn’t one of them. The dish is a strange mix of
   sweet, salty, and spicy combined in one delicious, 100% vegan snack.
   The dish is usually eaten as an appetizer because nothing can open an
   appetite like its contrast of flavors.

Kanji Vada

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere Rajasthan and most of West India.
   by Ravi Talwar CC by SA 4.0

   The mix of rai, chilies, and mustard probably doesn’t sound like
   something you would like to have in your drink. But this popular drink
   is actually quite tasty and it also aids digestion (if you happen to
   stuff yourself with too many of the delicious treats on this list). The
   preparation includes a process of fermentation that takes three days
   and adding dal vadas immersed in a mustard flavored kanji can that will
   surely tickle your tastebuds.

Misal Pav

   Where to find it?

   Mostly in Maharashtra, but it can be found in other parts of West India
   too.
   by Dheerajk88 CC by SA 4.0

   This popular Maharashtrian snack consists of a flavorful spicy curry
   (missal) and a soft bread roll (pav). The spicy curry is made of bean
   sprouts, moth, and several different local spices and topped with
   coriander, chilies, chivda, and sev. Together with its close cousin,
   Vada Pav, Misal Pav is one of Mumbai’s most popular treats.

Moong Dal Bhaji

   Where to find it?

   In Gujarat and most parts of West India.

   The name is self-explanatory; this dish consists of moong dal and a
   crunchy bread (bhaji) served with different types of local chutney.
   Moong Dal Bhaji is the perfect mix of sweet and spicy and its
   combination with chai makes it one of the most popular afternoon snacks
   in Gujarat and a lot of parts of West India.

Vada Pav

   Where to find it?

   Across India, but for the best vada pav, you’d have to visit its
   birthplace- Mumbai.
   by Rutvi Mistry CC by SA 4.0 by Rutvi Mistry CC by SA 4.0 by Rutvi
   Mistry CC by SA 4.0

   Vada Pav is one of the most popular Indian street food dishes that can
   be found in different parts of the country but it’s not included in the
   ‘’Pan India section’’ because it would to injustice to the meaning vada
   pav has for the city of Mumbai. The day of the average Mumbaikar is
   difficult to imagine without the legendary vada pav, also known as the
   ‘Indian burger’. This mouth-watering burger consists of a bread bun cut
   in half with a deep-fried potato dumpling inside. So simple, yet so
   delicious.

Dahi Puri

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Maharashtra.
   dahi puri dahi puri

   Dahi Puri is the ‘Marathi bhai’ of the iconic pani puri. It consists of
   semi-puffed puris filled with delicious, juicy chaat. The dish is
   served with curd and tangy chutney. The preparation starts with
   cracking the puri on the top and stuffing it with mashed potatoes or
   chickpeas and chili powder. Finally, the puris are topped with beaten
   yogurt, garnished with sprinklings of crushed sev, and are ready to
   serve.

Pav Bhaji

   Where to find it?

   Across India but you’ll find the best pav bhaji in Maharashtra.
   pav bhaji pav bhaji

   Spicy, hot, and flavorful, Pav Bhaji is the pride of Mumbai. It
   consists of a thick, spicy vegetable gravy that first attacks your
   smell buds and lures you to the nearest street food stall before giving
   the final blow to your taste buds and a soft bread bun with a few lime
   drops to open your appetite even more. Initially, the dish originates
   from Maharashtra but it became so popular you can even find instant pav
   bhaji in most big supermarkets across India.

Kulfi Falooda Rabri

   Where to find it?

   In Mumbai.
   kulfi faluda rabri kulfi faluda rabri

   If you’re a fan of ice cream, this is one of the dishes you simply
   can’t miss on your trip to Mumbai. This sweet and savory dessert is the
   ultimate sweet combo that combines three of West India’s most popular
   desserts into one. Kulfi is a popular local ice cream, falooda is a
   cold fruit-based dessert, and rabri is a sweet dish made of condensed
   milk. The dessert is topped with vermicelli, pistachios, and almonds.
   If I have one word to describe it, I would use ‘sensational’.

   *I won’t mention these three desserts separately in this list, but do
   try all of them one by one too. They are all amazing!

Ice Gola

   Where to find it?

   In Mumbai.

   Temperatures in Mumbai skyrocket during summers and ice gola vendors
   are a blessing in disguise during these hot summer days. Ice gola is a
   sweet and salty popcycle-like thing that helps you cool down and gain
   some energy for exploring the city. This dessert consists of pieces of
   shaved ice shaped around a stick enriched with various exotic fruit
   flavorings depending on the buyer’s preference and salt. I know it
   sounds like a weird combination but the taste is surprisingly
   refreshing.

Nitrogen Biscuit

   Where to find it?

   In Ice Cream Factory, in Mumbai.

   If fire paan is the most popular tourist attraction among street foods,
   its Mumbai pandan is the nitrogen biscuit. The biscuits are nothing
   different than regular biscuits. They’re practically flavorless but
   when you eat them the heat from your mouth turns the liquid nitrogen
   into a gas that starts coming out of your nose and mouth, making it
   seem like you’re breathing smoke like a dragon.

Ragda Pattice

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Maharashtra and Gujarat.
   by Ravi Talwar CC by SA 4.0

   The street food scene in Maharashtra and Gujarat couldn’t be complete
   without the vibrant colors and flavors of ragda pattice. The heart of
   the dish are the two potato cakes (pattice) served with a light stew of
   rehydrated dried white peas (ragda) enriched with chopped onions,
   coriander pieces, local spices, and different local chutneys that take
   the flavors of ragda pattice to another dimension.

Sabudana Vada

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Maharashtra.
   sabudana vada sabudana vada by Kunal Utreja CC by SA 4.0

   Even though served mostly during religious festivals, sabudana vada
   deserves a special mention on this list. This lip-smacking deep-fried
   delicacy is made from tapioca or sabudana, peanuts, chilies, potatoes,
   and coriander leaves formed into small patties. Usually, sabudana vada
   is served with yogurt and coconut chutney.

The best South Indian street food

Akki Roti

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Karnataka.
   sadya sadya

   Akki roti is a rice flour flatbread served with coconut or tomato gravy
   and a dressing of carrots, tomatoes, onions, and green chilies that
   give this tasty bread an additional punch of flavors. The dish can only
   be found in the state of Karnataka and is one of the most common local
   staples. As soon as you taste it, you’ll quickly realize why that is
   the case and fall in love with it.

Paddu

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in South India.

   This dish has a lot of different names like appe, paniyaram, and
   ponganalu but they all represent the same thing; a famous South Indian
   street food that tastes a lot like dosa but with a slight hint of
   sourness added in the mix. The batter for these delicious balls is made
   of rice and black lentils and is at its absolute best when combined
   with its best friends- onions, coconut chutney, and tasty filter
   coffee.

Kothu Parotta

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Tamil Nadu.
   south indian street food south indian street food

   Kothu Parotta is a simple but flavorful dish that originates from Tamil
   Nadu but is equally popular in Sri Lanka. The dish consists of minced
   parotta (a flavorful flatbread mixed with pieces of onions, tomatoes,
   eggs, and spices) and a signature salna gravy prepared with either
   chicken or mixed vegetables. Even though it’s not the healthiest dish,
   no trip to Tamil Nadu is complete without trying Kothu Parotta.

Pindi Vantalu (Muruku)

   Where to find it?

   Across South India and Sri Lanka, but the best one can be found in
   Telangana.

   This crunchy South Indian delight is one of the most popular snacks in
   South India and Sri Lanka. It’s made of either moong dal or rice flour
   and has the special power to add textural crunchiness to pretty much
   anything and can be combined with a myriad of other South Indian
   dishes. Everywhere in South India, this treat is known as Muruku but
   Telanganites call it Pindu Vantalu, and in my humble opinion, their
   version tops the charts.

Dal Vada

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in South India.
   vada paav vada paav

   Dal Vada is one of the most beloved street food snacks in South India
   and a lot of people even make it in their homes because the preparation
   is very simple. If you don’t like regular idlis (not for everyone),
   this crunchy variation will surely be a refreshing change. Dal Vada is
   prepared by combining uran, chana dal, moong dal, and tiny slices of
   vegetables, making small balls of the mixture and deep-frying it. This
   dish is usually served with a coconut chutney.

Moong Dal Ladoo

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in South India.
   moong dal ladoo moong dal ladoo

   Moong dal ladoo is an easy-to-make, popular South Indian sweet. These
   delicious, sugary delights are made of the omnipresent moong dal,
   sugar, and ghee. This delicious sweet requires only 3-4 ingredients,
   it’s a rich source of proteins and needs only around 30 minutes to
   prepare which just increases its popularity. The dish is usually
   garnished with grated mooli (radish) and served with a spicy coriander
   chutney.

Dosa

   Where to find it?

   Around India, but needless to say, the best dosas can be found in South
   India.
   dosa Indian street food dosa Indian street food

   Dosa is arguably the most popular snack in South India, in fact, so
   popular that it can be found pretty much anywhere in India. If you
   never heard about it, dosa is a crispy and savory, pancake-like-looking
   dish filled with spicy potato and toppings of your own choice. Dosa is
   an integral part of South Indian cuisine and can be found anywhere from
   street food stalls to fancy restaurants.

Mirchi Bajji

   Where to find it?

   Around South India but for the best mirchi bajji, head to Hyderabad.

   Mirchi Bajji is the South Indian cousin of Rajasthani Mirchi Pakoda
   with a slightly more sour and spicy taste. mirchi bajjis in South India
   are prepared with lime and green chili fritters. The mirchi bajji of
   Hyderabad is notorious for inducing sweat and tears to a lot of
   tourists but that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t try it. Your visit to
   Hyderabad couldn’t be complete without it.

Idli Sambar

   Where to find it?

   In numerous locations around South India but for the best mirchi bajji,
   head to Chennai.
   idli sambar idli sambar

   Idli Sambar is arguably Chennai’s favorite breakfast and something you
   can find on every corner in the Tamil capital but it’s also very
   popular in other parts of South India too. Idli is basically a rice
   bread dish made of fermented rice and black gram batter steamed in
   molds while sambar is a spicy vegetable curry with lentil base that
   will tickle your stomach and leave you craving for more.

Ram Ladoo

   Where to find it?

   In numerous locations in South India and surprisingly, Delhi.
   ram ladoo ram ladoo Taken at Latitude/Longitude:28.670608/77.307758. km
   (Map link)

   I always refer to Ram Ladoo as the South Indian version of panipuri but
   actually, this is one of the rare South Indian dishes that became one
   of Delhi’s most sought-after street food items. It’s basically a fried
   spicy pakoda served with flavorful moong dal and topped with chilies,
   onions, coriander leaves, and lime juice that offers a burst of
   different flavors that will satisfy every food lover out there.

Idli vada

   Where to find it?

   In numerous locations in South India, but for the best idli vada, you’d
   have to visit Bangalore.
   idli vada idli vada

   If Idli sambar is Chennai’s favorite breakfast, its Bangalore
   counterpart has to be idli vada. As you probably know by now, idlis are
   South India’s popular rice bread steamed in banana leaves while vadas
   are fresh and crispy doughnut-like snack served with spicy hot sambar
   and coconut chutney, making up for one of South India’s most glorious
   combos.

Vellayappam

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in Kerala.

   A list of the best South Indian street food wouldn’t be complete
   without mentioning Kerala’s most famous breakfast- vellayappam. This
   tasty snack is the closest Indian thing that comes to a pancake but the
   preparation steps are slightly different. The batter for vellayappam is
   made of rice flour, coconut, yeast, salt, and sugar. Traditionally,
   this dish is accompanied by one of the local curries but it can also be
   eaten straight up.

Idli chili fry

   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in South India.

   Chili idli fry is a popular snack that’s a rare mix of South Indian and
   Chinese cuisines. The dish consists of South India’s favorite rice
   bread (idli), chilies, and a bunch of optional vegetables. This dish
   quickly rose to popularity because it takes no longer than 10 minutes
   to make it and a lot of people in South India make this from the
   leftovers from yesterday’s lunch. But even if that’s the case, this
   famous street food delight is probably the world’s most tasty ‘leftover
   dish’.

Tips for enjoying street food in India

   Don’t be afraid of Indian street food. There’s always a risk of
   encountering an unhygienic street food stall and getting a bad stomach
   but then again, sometimes, this can happen in famous restaurants too.
   This leads me to my next point…

   Go where the locals are. If you see a long queue of locals in front of
   a street food stall, that’s the best indicator that this particular
   vendor serves not only food that’s safe to eat but also delicious.

   Be careful with street food drinks that aren’t hot. If the water didn’t
   boil, you can never be too sure how the water used to prepare that
   drink will impact your stomach. Just because locals are drinking it
   doesn’t mean it’s 100% safe for you to try it. Their body is used to
   the local water unlike yours.

   Beware of the sauces. Sauces and chutneys are made with tap water most
   of the time. Additionally, some of it might be sitting out in the sun
   for some time but if you follow the above-mentioned tips, you should be
   fine.

   When drinking fresh juice, always make sure it’s juiced in front of you
   and you’re not getting a cup of pre-made juice.

   Now that you’re ready with all these tips, I’m sure you’ll have a great
   time discovering the taste of India through some of its most popular
   street food dishes. Did you try any of these? Which one is your
   favorite Indian street food? Let us know in the comments!

   If you liked this post, also check out our guide to street food in
   Europe.

   Like it? Pin it.
   72 TASTY INDIAN Street Food you must try (1) 72 TASTY INDIAN Street
   Food you must try (1)
   Spread the love
   3.7K
   Shares

   By Author The Food Hog

   Posted on Last updated: January 8, 2023

   Categories Street Food, Indian Cuisine & Recipes, Street Food
   Destinations, Travel Bites

Post navigation

   37 Best Restaurants in Vientiane
   Click here to cancel reply.
   Current ye@r * 7.3.4_______________
   Leave this field empty ____________________

   Vardhan

   Thursday 13th of October 2022

   wow! such a great list of dishes just by viewing my mouth is
   watering.Street foods are festival to eyes especially chats that spicy
   taste . Mumbai is the best place for these kind of food.thank you for
   the information.

   The Food Hog

   Tuesday 6th of December 2022

   Thank you for your comment, Vardhan, I'm glad you enjoyed the article

   anwitasinha

   Monday 8th of August 2022

   wow! such a great list of dishes just by viewing my mouth is
   watering.Street foods are festival to eyes especially chats that spicy
   taste . Mumbai is the best place for these kind of food.Thanks for the
   post.

   The Food Hog

   Tuesday 6th of September 2022

   Thank you for your comment, I really appreciate it.

   ELIM

   Monday 8th of August 2022

   wow! such a great list of dishes just by viewing my mouth is
   watering.Street foods are festival to eyes especially chats that spicy
   taste . Mumbai is the best place for these kind of food.

   The Food Hog

   Tuesday 23rd of August 2022

   Thank you for your comment, Elim, I really appreciate it.

   Tastani

   Tuesday 5th of April 2022

   wow! such a great list of dishes just by viewing my mouth is
   watering.Street foods are festival to eyes especially chats that spicy
   taste . Mumbai is the best place for these kind of food. Thank you for
   a great article.

   The Food Hog

   Friday 3rd of June 2022

   Thank you for your kind words, Tastani

   ali

   Sunday 27th of March 2022

   thank you for the amazing images and info! I cannot find out what my
   favourite snack was called though, can't see it here - I thought it was
   called Padana but googling it didn't work,can you help? It was a batter
   similar to idli but swirled into coils, flat like pancakes but easy to
   tear because the swirl was a spiral and crispy on the edges yet soft
   inside.

   The Food Hog

   Friday 3rd of June 2022

   Thank you for your comment, Ali, I'm glad you liked it and sorry you
   couldn't find the snack you were looking for. I'm not quite sure but
   from your description it sounds like a dosa variation and there are
   plenty of these variations in South India. Maybe if you search for Dosa
   varieties you'll be able to find what you're looking for. Hope this
   helps.

Keep Up With The Food Hog

   Categories[Select Category________________________]

   Copyright © 2023 The Food Hog | Trellis Framework by Mediavine
