   #Eater

   Skip to main content

Cookie banner

   We use cookies and other tracking technologies to improve your browsing
   experience on our site, show personalized content and targeted ads,
   analyze site traffic, and understand where our audiences come from. To
   learn more or opt-out, read our Cookie Policy. Please also read our
   Privacy Notice and Terms of Use, which became effective December 20,
   2019.

   By choosing I Accept, you consent to our use of cookies and other
   tracking technologies.
   (BUTTON)
   I Accept

   Biju's Little Curry Shop/courtesy Lauren DeBell

   Filed under:
     * Fast-Casual

Why Indian Cuisine Is Having a Fast-Casual Moment Right Now

   Across the country, brands are trying everything from tikka masala
   burritos to spiced lentil bowls
   by Vignesh Ramachandran Oct 5, 2016, 12:00pm EDT
   1 comment / new

Share this story

     * Share this on Facebook
     * Share this on Twitter
     * Share All sharing options

Share All sharing options for: Why Indian Cuisine Is Having a Fast-Casual
Moment Right Now

     * Pocket
     * Flipboard
     * Email

   For decades, classic Indian buffets have dotted the American landscape,
   making items like chicken tikka masala, samosas, and naan recognizable
   in households across the country. But “frankly, what people know of
   Indian food is: It’s greasy, it’s creamy, it makes me sick,” said Aarti
   Sequeira, cookbook author and host of Food Network’s Aarti Party. “That
   is the biggest lie about what Indian food really is.”
     __________________________________________________________________

   Indian food in the United States has long been dominated by the first
   generation of South Asian immigrants opening what New York University
   food studies associate professor Krishnendu Ray calls "curry houses" —
   the common cheap buffets where the food often becomes formulaic, with
   few kinds of sauces and strong one-dimensional flavors. Think saag
   paneer, naan, and pictures of the Taj Mahal plastered everywhere. Out
   of the approximately 350 Indian restaurants in New York City, for
   example, Ray estimates that 320 are the typical curry house format,
   while 10 to 15 are on the other extreme: upscale, expensive Indian
   restaurants like Tamarind and the Michelin-starred Junoon.
   " "At its very core, we wanted to just change the way people thought
   about Indian food in America.""

   But currently, the fast-casual space is booming. There's Chipotle and
   Qdoba for Tex-Mex, Shake Shack for burgers and fries, and Sweetgreen
   and Tender Greens for fancy salads. And now, a new crop of Indian
   fast-casual restaurants is growing.

   These Indian-inspired fast-casual spots are open coast to coast: from
   Saffron in Los Angeles to Indikitch and the Kati Roll Company in New
   York to Taja Indian in Denver and Houston. They're presenting
   themselves in a way that goes against Indian-restaurant stereotypes:
   with bright spaces, modern branding, and menus with dishes meant to be
   broadly appealing to the American fast-food customer. With menu items
   like the yogi salad at San Francisco's Kasa Indian Eatery and the dosa
   waffle at New York's Inday, these restaurants trying to shake up Indian
   cuisine in America. So is America now primed, finally, for the Indian
   fast-casual explosion?

   Curry Up Now's interior. Photo courtesy Curry Up Now

   Attempting to make certain flavors more commonplace in the fast-casual
   space is not new. ShopHouse Kitchen, a growing chain that is literally
   the Chipotle of Southeast Asian food, debuted in 2011, and has learned
   some lessons while scaling. ShopHouse uses the same build-it-yourself
   concept as its Tex-Mex sister: The restaurant offers rice, noodle, or
   salad bowls (it's now also testing roti options in select locations)
   with layers of protein, vegetable, sauce, and topping options.
   ShopHouse Kitchen has since expanded to 14 additional locations across
   the DC/Maryland, Los Angeles, and Chicago markets.

   With a lot of Thai influences, the ShopHouse menu includes flavors like
   lemongrass, galangal, kaffir lime leaves, and Thai basil. According to
   co-founder and brand director Tim Wildin, bridging the gap between
   consumers and new-to-them ingredients happens by communicating "the top
   notes of flavors in various things that might be foreign to people,"
   referring to communication in branding, marketing, and wording on
   menus. Spice levels must also be clearly conveyed, Wildin explained,
   because that can be a barrier to entry for some people.

   ""Everyone knows what a burrito is, but not everyone knows what a kati
   roll or a thali is.""

   To lower those barriers, Indian fast-casual startups are borrowing from
   American fast-food influences. Back in 2009, the Curry Up Now chainlet
   started as a single food truck in Northern California, serving items
   like the tikka masala burrito. "It's not fusion — we hate that word,"
   said co-founder Akash Kapoor, who is positioning Curry Up Now as a
   "fine casual" concept. The company has since grown to five trucks and
   four physical restaurants around the San Francisco Bay Area.

   About half of Curry Up Now's menu offers Indian twists on burritos,
   fries, quesadillas, and tacos, while the other half tries to stay more
   traditional with Indian street food and classic dishes. "The burrito is
   100 percent Indian, but by calling it a burrito and offering it as a
   burrito, we've made the food accessible to all," Kapoor said. "Everyone
   knows what a burrito is, but not everyone knows what a kati roll or a
   thali is."

   Los Angeles gastropub Badmaash takes a similar approach with items like
   chicken tikka poutine and a spiced lamb burger. "When it really comes
   down to it, people just want to eat good food," said Badmaash
   co-founder Nakul Mahendro, talking about how to make flavors more
   approachable to a wider audience. "I think a poutine and a burger would
   scare away no one."

   Though it's not fast-casual, Badmaash — named after a term meaning
   "badass" in South Asia — is similarly branding itself as going against
   the grain, marketing social media hashtags like
   #WeAreNotAnIndianRestaurant and #FuckYourFavoriteIndianRestaurant.
   "Indian food is stuck in the ‘80s, the way Chinese food was in the
   ‘90s," Mahendro said. "At its very core, we wanted to just change the
   way people thought about Indian food in America. That's a really big
   uphill battle."

   At Curry Up Now, Kapoor is also experimenting with items like "tikka
   tikka hummus" and "Tau, the Dude," a giant samosa filled with biryani
   and an egg. Curry Up Now is even expanding its menu to offer craft
   cocktails: Its Mortar and Pestle bar shakes up a typical old fashioned
   with garam masala syrup.
   ""The idea was to take the food that I grew up with and do a simplified
   version of that in an affordable, fast, colorful setting.""

   Once a fast-casual concept clicks, there are challenges when it comes
   to super-sizing it to Chipotle-like proportions. California-based Tava
   Indian Kitchen started in Palo Alto and San Francisco with a
   familiar-sounding concept: build your own "burrotis" and bowls with
   Indian ingredients. But after Tava hired a new executive from
   Smashburger and raised $4.5 million in equity financing to scale, the
   company worked with a restaurant design firm, an ad agency group, and
   culinary talent to shift its look and feel, as well as update its food
   items. Now known as Tava Kitchen, it literally took the "Indian" out of
   its name to broaden its appeal.

   "We really have spent a lot of time trying to figure out what the right
   product offering is, what the right brand positioning is, and how to
   put together a restaurant concept that's really exciting and motivating
   for customers out there," Tava Kitchen CEO Jeremy Morgan, formerly of
   Smashburger, said.

   Tava now intentionally brands itself as "South Asian" food — expanding
   its menu beyond Indian influences. It's incorporated beef and shrimp
   into main dishes, and now offers sides like South Asian mac and cheese
   (with Indian spices in the panko crumbs) and a crunchy kale and quinoa
   salad that has a masala vinaigrette. In addition to a third location in
   Alameda, California, Tava plans to expand out of state into the Denver
   area soon, and is also looking at franchising options.

   While Morgan says Tava's rebranding didn't want to deter Indian food
   loyalists, it aimed to open doors to customers who may have been
   intimidated by South Asian food in the past. But any intimidation is
   "less about the food itself," Morgan said, "it's more about perception
   than it is reality, when it comes down to it."
   Photo courtesy Tava Kitchen

   The fear factor is all too real with Indian food. "The word 'curry' is
   still a difficult word for people because they automatically associate
   that with heat [spice]," Food Network's Sequeira said. Commonly
   misunderstood in the western world, curry is just a generic term for a
   style of dish — like the term "pasta" might be used in multiple
   contexts. And typical Indian food eaten at home usually departs from
   what's familiar on curry house steam tables — it likely doesn't even
   have curry powder and incorporates very little naan, said Anupy Singla,
   a cookbook author and co-founder of Chicago-based Indian food company
   Indian As Apple Pie.

   Some fast-casual entrepreneurs, like Singla, are blending their
   American perspective with the Indian dishes they grew up eating at
   home. In Colorado, Biju Thomas — whose restaurant Biju's Little Curry
   Shop opened in Denver a year and a half ago — offers South Indian-based
   food. "The idea was to take the food that I grew up with and do a
   simplified version of that in an affordable, clean, really friendly,
   fast, colorful setting," Thomas said.

   Thomas's dishes feature ingredients reminiscent of the Kerala region in
   South India: fresh coconut, ginger, garlic, and curry leaves. Bowls
   might include a base of basmati rice with spiced lentils, topped with
   sautéed vegetables and meats, all customized to the diner's liking,
   just like the bowls at Chipotle. Sometimes people come into his
   restaurants surprised that this is "real" Indian food, Thomas said —
   especially with beef on the menu.

   Thomas's plan to bring South Indian flavors to the masses is getting
   attention. Whole Foods gave Thomas the go-ahead to open a chef-driven
   concept with his regional style of Indian cuisine inside one of its
   Boulder stores — something Whole Foods now wants to expand nationally.
   In addition to two Denver locations, Thomas is also looking to expand
   Biju's Little Curry Shop locations in Colorado, California, Washington
   state, and Texas.

   Food from Curry Up Now (left) and Tava Kitchen (right), photos courtesy
   the restaurants

   In recent years, NYU Indian food scholar Ray says he has been
   approached by at least a dozen "very bullish" food entrepreneurs about
   discussing their Indian fast-casual concepts. They're likely inspired
   by those already forging ahead in the space.

   These days, Curry Up Now has a central commercial kitchen to make most
   of its sauces and chutneys for its various locations, but co-founder
   Kapoor says no preservatives or additives are added to these big
   batches, made several times a week. With food prep scaled up to his
   liking, Kapoor is looking at national expansion, either through
   licensing, franchising, or corporate stores. The goal? About 300 to 500
   physical locations around the country, with a couple food trucks in
   each major city, too.
   " "I’m excited for us to move to the next level, where we’re really
   being creative with what we’re feeding people.""

   Biju's Little Curry Shop has a central kitchen to prepare chutneys and
   to cook vindaloo, coconut coriander, and red onion masala curry bases
   each morning. Thomas's recipes are kept simple for restaurant cooks: At
   each location, meats are cooked and then blended in with each of those
   bases, and finishing items like chiles, chopped herbs, and some spices
   are added. "I needed to be able to do something that we could open
   anywhere in the country and get reasonably qualified staff and train
   them well," Thomas said.

   While many fast-casual entrepreneurs have their operations set, Ray
   advises operators that Indian flavors alone aren't going to win over
   Americans' hearts. To fight in the competitive fast-casual marketplace,
   he believes these emerging Indian chains need to make a name for
   themselves with their quality and sustainability. That means a genuine
   focus on things like food waste, organic and local vegetables, non-GMO
   ingredients, and transparency about where all their meat comes from.
   "It has to be front-loaded. It has to be aggressive. It has to be
   uncompromising," Ray said. "And they have to convey that [to
   customers]."

   Luckily, experts like Food Network's Sequeira believe that Indian food
   is lends itself to these trends: The fact that it's vegetable-forward,
   healthy, and customizable in a fast-casual space. "I think if we can
   push that aspect of Indian food, then people can get into it," Sequeira
   said.

   But moving forward, Indian fast-casual needs more culinary innovation,
   said Sequeira, who notes she's ready to see more chefs trailblazing
   beyond just wrapping up Indian food in a burrito. "I'm excited for us
   to move to the next level," she said, "where we're really experimenting
   and being creative with what we're feeding people."

   Vignesh Ramachandran is a Palo Alto, California-based freelance
   journalist who is experimenting with Indian cooking after growing up in
   a foodie family.
   Editor: Erin DeJesus
   Cheap Eats Week 2015

Why It's Finally Time for a Fast-Casual Fried Chicken Explosion

   New York City

How the Fast-Casual Boom Is Changing the Restaurant Real Estate Game

   Reports

It’s Shake Shack’s World, You’re Just Eating In It

Loading comments...

Sign up for the Sign up for the Eater newsletter

   The freshest news from the food world every day

Thanks for signing up!

   Check your inbox for a welcome email.
   Email (required)
   ____________________

   Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
   By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
   You can opt out at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and
   the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
   (BUTTON) Subscribe
   (BUTTON) close

   Chorus
     * Terms of Use
     * Privacy Notice
     * Cookie Policy
     * Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Info
     * Licensing FAQ
     * Accessibility
     * Platform Status

     * Contact
     * Send Us a Tip
     * Community Guidelines
     * Masthead
     * About Eater
     * Ethics Statement
     * Press Room
     * Newsletters
     * How to Pitch

   Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2023 Vox
   Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved

Share this story

     * Twitter
     * Facebook
