   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MRVXSHQ

   Skip to main content

   Advertisement
   Advertisement
   BMC
   Part of Springer Nature
   (BUTTON) Search
     * Explore journals
     * Get published
     * About BMC
     * My account

   Search all BMC articles
   ____________________
   (BUTTON) Search
   Nutrition Journal
     * Home
     * About
     * Articles
     * Submission Guidelines

   Differences in perceptions and fast food eating behaviours between
   Indians living in high- and low-income neighbourhoods of Chandigarh,
   India
   Download PDF
   Download ePub
   Download PDF
   Download ePub
     * Research
     * Open Access
     * Published: 07 January 2013

Differences in perceptions and fast food eating behaviours between Indians
living in high- and low-income neighbourhoods of Chandigarh, India

     * Christopher Robert Aloia^1,
     * Danijela Gasevic^2,
     * Salim Yusuf^3,
     * Koon Teo^3,
     * Arun Chockalingam^4,
     * Binod Kumar Patro^5,
     * Rajesh Kumar^5 &
     * …
     * Scott Alexander Lear^1,2,6

   (BUTTON) Show authors

   Nutrition Journal volume 12, Article number: 4 (2013) Cite this article
     * 22k Accesses
     * 16 Citations
     * 2 Altmetric
     * Metrics details

Abstract

Background

   Increased density of fast food restaurants is associated with increased
   prevalence of obesity in developed countries. However, less is known
   about this relationship in developing countries undergoing rapid
   urbanization and how differences in neighbourhood income affect the
   patronage of fast food outlets. The purpose of the study is to explore
   the differences in fast food preferences, perceptions, and patronage
   between Indians living in high- and low-income neighbourhoods.

Methods

   This cross-sectional study recruited 204 men and women (35 to 65 years
   in age) from high- and low-income neighbourhoods who completed a
   questionnaire on fast food consumption. The questionnaire asked
   participants to define fast food and to provide reasons for and
   frequency of visits to fast food restaurants. The differences were
   analyzed using Chi square and t-tests for categorical and continuous
   variables, respectively.

Results

   Participants from a high-income neighbourhood were more likely to
   perceive Western -style fast food as fast food, while people from the
   low-income neighbourhood were more likely to identify food sold by
   street vendors as fast food (p <0.001). Furthermore, compared to
   participants from the high-income neighbourhood, people from the
   low-income neighbourhood were more likely to report buying food from
   street vendors while less likely to dine out at both fast food and
   non-fast food restaurants (p<0.001). Although the high-income
   neighbourhood group was more likely to report enjoying eating at fast
   food restaurants than their low-income neighbourhood counterparts,
   there were no significant differences in the reasons for visiting fast
   food restaurants (convenience, price, social enjoyment, and quality of
   meals) between the two groups. Both groups preferred home cooked over
   restaurant meals, and they recognized that home cooked food was
   healthier.

Conclusions

   Overall, consumption of fast food was low. People from a high-income
   neighbourhood dined out more frequently and were more likely to
   perceive Western-style food as fast food compared to their counterparts
   from the low-income neighbourhood.

   Peer Review reports

Background

   In the past few decades, fast food (food prepared in a restaurant with
   limited service staff and from which the majority of meals are consumed
   off premises) has been implicated as one of the contributors to
   increased population rates of obesity [1–4]. The growth of the
   fast-food industry has led to an increased consumption of food prepared
   away from home that is high in total and saturated fat, as well as
   sodium, but low in dietary fibre, calcium, and iron [5]. Prospective
   data from Western countries have shown that there is a positive
   association between frequency of fast food restaurant use and weight
   gain [4, 6, 7]. Hence, as Western fast food companies are expanding in
   developing countries such as India [8], there is a considerable concern
   that such countries are in danger of succumbing to the same obesity
   trends as in the Western countries [9].

   In recent years, there has been a marked increase in the rates of
   obesity in countries such as India that has been attributed to
   unhealthy lifestyle practices associated with the introduction of
   Western-style fast foods that are higher in fat and refined
   carbohydrates [10, 11]. Yadav and Krishanan found that the prevalence
   of central obesity in North India increased with the level of
   urbanization in both men and women by 8.7% and 34.5%, respectively
   [11]. This is important, as central obesity is associated with less
   desirable cardiovascular risk profile. Indeed, it has been shown that,
   at comparable BMI and age, South Asians were at increased
   cardiovascular risk compared to their Caucasian counterparts [12–14].
   Given that fast food is implicated as one of contributors to the
   increase in obesity rates [2], understanding the perceptions of fast
   food and reasons for eating at fast food restaurants in India will help
   inform health promotion strategies.

   Research on people’s perceptions about fast food in India is limited.
   Results of a study that surveyed Indian adults in their 20s showed
   that, although they preferred home cooking over fast food, their main
   reasons for visiting fast food establishments were going there for fun,
   change of scenery, and socializing [8]. In another recent study that
   surveyed 106 South Asians from Bangladesh, researchers revealed that
   consumers are most likely to buy lunch or midday snack at a
   Western-style fast food restaurant and consider costs, mood of the
   restaurant, availability of various types of food, convenience, and
   location of the restaurant in their decision [15]. While these studies
   did investigate South Asian people’s preferences regarding fast food,
   they did not explore whether those differ between people living in
   neighbourhoods of differing income levels. This is important given that
   neighbourhood income was found to be associated with fast food density
   and obesity in developed countries [6, 16, 17]. Consequently, the main
   objectives of this study were to explore the differences in fast food
   consumption between Indians adults (35 to 65 years of age) living in
   high- and low-income neighbourhoods in India and to explore if the
   difference in neighbourhood income affects their patronage of fast food
   restaurants and their perception of fast food itself.

Methods

   This cross-sectional study was conducted as part of the Prospective
   Urban Rural Epidemiology (PURE) study, which examines the relationship
   of societal influences on human health related behaviours,
   cardiovascular risk factors, and incidence of chronic, non-communicable
   diseases [18]. This sub-study is based on a sample of convenience
   recruited from June to August 2009 at the Post-Graduate Institute of
   Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, India. All
   individuals between ages 35 and 65 recruited for the PURE study within
   the above mentioned period agreed to fill out an additional
   questionnaire on fast food behaviour and participate in this study. In
   total, 204 men and women participated in this study, out of which 103
   individuals were from a high-income neighbourhood, while 101 men and
   women came from a low-income neighbourhood. Neighbourhood income was
   determined by average house size in the neighbourhood. House size is
   measured objectively via a census. The houses measuring 100 square
   yards and less are considered low-income, while the houses measuring
   more than 250 square yards are considered high-income. Neighbourhood
   where houses measuring 100 square yards and less were predominant was
   defined as low-income neighbourhood, while neighbourhood where houses
   bigger than 250 yards were predominant was considered high-income
   neighbourhood. Individuals from both neighbourhoods were approached in
   the same manner reflecting the internal validity of the study. All
   participants were assessed for smoking behaviour, educational
   attainment, household income, marital status, and religion as part of
   the PURE study. Additionally, each participant filled out a
   questionnaire in order to be assessed for fast food behaviour. Fast
   food was defined as food with distinctly “Western” characteristics,
   such as sandwiches, take-out pizza, deep fried chicken, or burgers.
   Researchers defined fast food establishments as restaurants that either
   had foods prepared or took little time to prepare, with limited service
   staff and the majority of business derived from take-out sales [11].
   Fast food restaurants included McDonald’s, Pizza Hut, and Kentucky
   Fried Chicken, which were included on the questionnaire because they
   were the most common Western-style fast food restaurants in Chandigarh
   [19–21]. All participants provided informed consent to the study. The
   Simon Fraser University Office of Research Ethics Board approved this
   study.

Fast food behaviour

   Fast food behaviour was measured using a survey instrument specifically
   developed to explore the differences in fast food perception and
   consumption between individuals from high- and low-income
   neighbourhoods in Chandigarh, India. The face validity of the survey
   instrument was assessed through an in-person interview, which was
   conducted with an individual from Chandigarh to test its cultural
   appropriateness as well as with individuals in Canada who emigrated
   from the region in and around Chandigarh, India. However, no formal
   test of validity was performed. The questionnaire asked participants
   how they define fast food, about the frequency of fast food dining and
   buying snacks/desserts outside the home, whether or not they enjoyed
   eating at fast food restaurants, and the reasons for eating at fast
   food restaurants. Furthermore, a question on buying food from a local
   street vendor was included in the questionnaire, given that in
   developing countries such as India, buying food from a street vendor is
   an affordable and convenient meal option when eating outside the home.
   In addition, questions were asked about the frequency of eating at
   specific fast food restaurants and traditional restaurants not
   considered fast food. It is important to note that many of the
   participants rarely patronized fast food restaurants, so the questions
   pertaining to frequency of eating outside the home, originally given in
   days per week, are presented as the average number of times per year.

   Furthermore, dining out for breakfast and lunch was very rare among
   participants from both low- and high-income neighbourhood groups. There
   were only 9 people (out of 204) that reported dining out for breakfast
   (3 people from low-income and 6 people from high-income
   neighbourhoods). Similarly, 30 people reported dining out for lunch (15
   in each neighbourhood group). Consequently, in order to increase power
   we collapsed breakfast, lunch, and dinner meals and explored the
   neighbourhood differences in dining out for breakfast, lunch, and
   dinner. Participants were further asked about distance from home to
   fast food restaurants. The survey instrument also asked participants’
   perceptions on which they considered healthier: food cooked at home, or
   food prepared outside the home at non-fast food or fast food
   establishments. Two experienced interviewers fluent in the three most
   common local languages (Punjabi, Hindi, and Urdu) administered the
   questionnaire by interview. It is important to note that although one
   of the initial questions asked participants what closely matched their
   definition of fast food, the interviewers then explained to all
   participants that the remaining questions asking about fast food
   pertained specifically to fast food with distinctly “Western-style”
   characteristics, such as sandwiches, take-out pizza, deep fried
   chicken, and burgers. Having one of the authors (CRA) present at all
   interviews ensured that all questions were uniformly understood by
   participants. The survey instrument is available upon request.

Statistical analysis

   Variables are presented as counts and percentages if categorical or as
   means and standard deviations if continuous. Non-normally distributed
   continuous variables are presented as geometric means (95% CI). The
   differences in tested parameters between participants from high- and
   low-income neighbourhoods were explored using an independent t-test
   (normally distributed continuous variables), Mann U Whitney test
   (non-normally distributed variables), or a Chi square (χ^2) test
   (categorical variables). Analysis of the question that probes people’s
   reasons for going to fast food restaurants was performed only on
   participants who reported eating at fast food restaurants. A p-value of
   0.05 and less was considered statistically significant. All analyses
   were performed using SPSS version 17.0, SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL.

Results

   Participants from the high-income neighbourhood were younger and smoked
   less than participants from the low-income neighbourhood (Table 1). The
   high-income neighbourhood comprised Hindus (69.9%), Sikhs (28.2%) and
   Jains (1.9%). Participants living in the low-income neighbourhood were
   predominantly of Hindu religious background (88.1%) with fewer than
   half as many Sikhs than in the high-income neighbourhood (11.9% vs.
   28.2%). The high-income neighbourhood had a greater prevalence of
   illiteracy (24.2% vs. 3.0%) and fewer people with secondary level of
   formal education (16.5% vs. 37.6%) than the low-income neighbourhood.
   Percentage of people with higher than secondary level of formal
   education was similar in high- and low-income neighbourhoods (44.7% vs.
   48.5%). There was no significant difference in household income between
   individuals living in high- and low-income neighbourhoods (p>0.05).
   Table 1 Socio-demographic characteristics of study participants
   Full size table

   Perception of fast food was measured by asking the question, “Which
   most closely matches your definition of ‘fast food’”? Options
   participants could choose from were “food sold by street vendors, such
   as bhel puri or samosas”, “food served at restaurants such as
   McDonald’s or Kentucky Fried Chicken”, or “no answer”. Participants
   from a high-income neighbourhood were more likely to report fast food
   as food sold at chain restaurants. In contrast, individuals from a
   low-income neighbourhood were four times more likely to report fast
   food as food sold by street vendors compared to their counterparts from
   a high-income neighbourhood (Table 2).
   Table 2 Differences in perceptions regarding fast food between
   individuals from high- and a low-income neighbourhoods
   Full size table

   There was a significant association between neighbourhood income and
   whether or not people enjoyed eating at fast food restaurants (p =
   0.002) (Table 2). Participants from the high-income neighbourhood were
   more likely to report enjoying eating at fast food restaurants compared
   to people from a low-income neighbourhood (30.1% vs. 9.9%). However, a
   substantial percentage of participants from both high-income (35%) and
   low-income (49.5%) neighbourhoods reported not eating fast food at
   Western-style fast food restaurants. In addition, about 95% of
   participants from both high- and low-income neighbourhood groups
   reported that having a fast food restaurant closer to their home would
   not make them eat at a fast food restaurant more often. Also, almost
   all participants reported that they prefer home cooking to and believe
   it is healthier than restaurant food (Table 2).

   All participants from high- and low-income neighbourhoods were assessed
   for differences in frequencies of eating outside the home. Table 3
   shows that frequency of eating outside of the home was low for both
   residents of high-income and low-income neighbourhoods. However,
   compared to people from the low-income neighbourhood, individuals from
   the high-income neighbourhood reported more frequent consumption of
   breakfast, lunch, and dinner outside the home (5.9 vs. 2.3 times per
   year; p < 0.001). Furthermore, participants from the high-income
   neighbourhood reported more frequent visits to fast food restaurants
   such as Pizza Hut, McDonald’s, and Kentucky Fried Chicken (3.5 vs. 1.4
   times per year; p < 0.001), and they dined more often at traditional,
   non-fast food restaurants compared to their counterparts living in the
   low-income neighbourhood (6.0 vs. 2.7 times per year; p<0.001). In
   contrast, people from the low-income neighbourhood were more likely to
   report buying food from street vendors compared to those in the
   high-income group (6.5 vs. 2.7 times per year; p<0.001). Participants
   from the high-income neighbourhood consumed snacks or desserts outside
   the home more than participants living in the low-income neighbourhood,
   although this did not reach statistical significance (p = 0.065).
   Table 3 Frequency of dining out per year for individuals from high- and
   low-income neighbourhoods
   Full size table

   Subsequent questions (Table 4) probed people’s reasons for eating at
   fast food restaurants. These questions were directed only to
   participants who reported eating at fast food restaurants (64 and 43
   residents of high- and low-income neighbourhoods, respectively). There
   was no difference between people from high- and low-income
   neighbourhoods regarding reasons for eating at fast food restaurants,
   including convenience, price, social enjoyment, and quality of meals.
   In addition, neither group of participants reported price as a reason
   for going to fast food restaurants nor did they report that they ate
   too much fast food.
   Table 4 Reasons for going to fast food establishments of those
   participants who have patronized them
   Full size table

Discussion

   Through our investigation we sought to explore the differences between
   Indian individuals living in a high- and those living in a low-income
   neighbourhood in Chandigarh, India, regarding their patronage of fast
   food restaurants, perception of fast food, and fast food consumption.
   The results of our study indicate that people from a high-income
   neighbourhood dined out more frequently and were more likely to
   perceive Western-style food as fast food, while people from the
   low-income neighbourhood were more likely to identify food sold by
   street vendors as fast food. Based on the questions asked, there were
   no significant differences in the reasons for visiting fast food
   restaurants between the two groups, such as convenience and price, and
   both groups were more in favour of home-cooked over restaurant meals.

   According to the Indian Fast Food Market Analysis report, India’s fast
   food market is growing quickly, at a rate of 30-35% per year [22]. It
   has been suggested that rapid urbanization, swift economic growth, and
   increase in average income in India will lead to an increase in
   consumerism [23]. Our study found that individuals from the high-income
   neighbourhood were more likely to eat at fast food restaurants compared
   to their counterparts from the low-income neighbourhood. Furthermore, a
   large minority of our study participants (23%) were not familiar with
   what fast food is, while another 33% cited local street vendors as fast
   food providers, as opposed to Western-style fast food restaurants. Some
   classic examples of Indian street food include samosa, a deep-fried
   pocket of spiced mixture of potato and peas inside a dough made
   primarily of chickpea flour; channa batura, which is spicy chickpeas
   served with a deep-fried, puffy dough; and pav bhaji, a spicy,
   grill-fried puree of tomatoes, carrots, and peppers served with
   white-bread rolls. It is interesting to note that most street vendors
   also use their own recipes and make everything by hand, using a variety
   of oils and ingredients, so the nutritional content of the same type of
   food may differ from vendor to vendor. This greater consumption of
   Western-style fast food in the higher income group is in contrast to
   findings in studies in the West that indicate greater consumption among
   low income individuals [24]. This may be the result of strategic
   marketing by Western fast food companies defined as “glocalisation,”
   which describes a multinational company that tailors products and
   marketing specifically to local cultural tastes [25]. In addition, when
   a fast food company enters a foreign market they usually target the
   middle class and higher [26, 27]. Consequently, given that entry of
   Western-style fast food branded products to India has been facilitated
   for the more affluent consumers, eating Western-style fast food on a
   regular basis is still financially out of reach for low-income people
   [28]. However, in our study, none of the participants cited price as
   impacting their decision to eat at these establishments. Furthermore,
   although the frequency of eating at Western-style fast food restaurants
   was higher among individuals in the high-income neighbourhood compared
   to their counterparts from the low-income neighbourhood, the frequency
   of eating at fast food restaurants was generally low among people from
   both neighbourhoods.

   The Chandigarh Healthy Heart Action Project (CHHAP) reported that more
   people aged 15–24 years old living in an urban area (72%) preferred
   Western-style fast food than people of the same age in rural areas
   (37%) [29]. In our study, we reported that 30% of the high-income group
   enjoyed eating fast food compared to 10% of the low-income. Preference
   levels for fast food appear to be quite lower than the CHHAP findings.
   This difference may be due to the fact that we sampled people from a
   low-income neighbourhood where these participants indicated eating less
   at Western fast food restaurants. Another explanation for this
   difference could be due to our study population being older than that
   in the CHHAP study. Studies in the US generally indicate that fast food
   consumption is greater among younger people [30].

   We also found that in both high- and low-income study participants,
   home cooked food was preferred over food bought in fast food
   establishments and that nearly all participants indicated that home
   cooked foods are healthier than fast food. This is consistent with the
   results of an earlier study, which indicated that younger Indian fast
   food consumers prefer home cooked meals to fast food [8]. One of the
   reasons could be that in the West, fast food more closely resembles
   food typically served throughout the culture, whereas in India,
   Western-style fast food and Indian home cooked food are quite
   different. Although restaurants have tried to make and adapt food to
   local tastes, Western-style fast food is still categorically different
   than traditional fare [26]. Nevertheless, high-income participants
   reported eating at Western-style fast food restaurants more often, but
   there was no difference between the two groups with respect to the
   reasons for eating fast food. It should also be noted we found that
   eating for social enjoyment was the highest cited reason, followed by
   convenience, whereas Farhana and Islam found that brand loyalty and
   quality were the main reasons for consuming fast food in people living
   in Dhaka, Bangladesh, with a mean age of 25 [15]. Goyal and Singh, who
   also found quality and value as the main reason why people patronize
   fast food restaurants, substantiate this point [8]. Interestingly, we
   also asked if the quality of meals were a reason for going to fast food
   restaurants and the response was over 90% negative. Again, age and
   regional differences might provide a reason for the discrepancy of the
   findings.

   Given the rapid expansion of fast food industry in India, and in the
   light of the negative impact of fast food on health [1], it is
   important to understand how Indians perceive fast food and the reasons
   they patronize fast food businesses. Given that fast-food consumption
   has been associated with increases in body weight and insulin
   resistance, it is further implicated in the development of Type 2
   diabetes [4]. In general, people of South Asian background are at
   greater risk for CVD and diabetes compared to other ethnic groups [12,
   13, 31]. While most participants reported they would not eat fast food
   even if it were closer to them, the rapid expansion of fast food
   establishments will increase availability and likely reduce cost of
   fast food. These factors have been found to increase fast food
   consumption in other countries undergoing rapid economic growth [3].

Limitations

   This study employed a cross-sectional design, so no conclusions can be
   made about the causal relationships between the variables. Moreover,
   only individuals between ages of 35 and 65 years were surveyed. Younger
   generations are typically the higher consumers of fast food, which may
   have obstructed a positive finding of higher levels of fast food
   patronage in a younger cohort. However, surveying older consumers is as
   important as surveying younger ones, as factors influencing choice of
   fast food establishments as well as reasons for visiting and eating at
   fast food outlets might be different for individuals of various age
   groups. The higher rate of illiteracy in the defined high-income
   neighbourhood was unexpected. Factors,such as self-reporting bias can
   play a role. Furthermore, according to Indian Census, 47% of the
   population rents a place [32]. Consequently, it is possible that people
   living in the house are not necessarily always the owners of the house
   but rather people who are renting the place and are from various
   educational and income brackets. Furthermore, in our study, we did not
   notice a statistically significant difference in individual income
   between people living in high- and low-income neighbourhoods. It has
   been established that people tend to deny socially undesirable traits
   or qualities and report more socially desirable ones instead [33].
   Furthermore, others reported that high-income individuals may be
   reluctant to disclose their income [34]. Consequently, there is a
   possibility that income was misreported within the sample, with people
   from the high-income neighbourhood under-reporting and those from the
   low-income neighbourhood over-reporting personal income. Furthermore,
   as noted above, people occupying high-income neighbourhood houses may
   not necessarily be house owners but rather the tenants renting a place
   and coming from various income brackets. Moreover, study participants
   surveyed come only from two neighbourhoods in Chandigarh, so the
   results cannot be generalized to the whole city of Chandigarh or other
   cities/regions of India. In addition, given that reported consumption
   of fast food was low in our study sample, we did not have enough power
   to explore whether socio-demographic characteristics modify the
   relationship between neighbourhood income and fast food consumption.

Conclusions

   Indians from a high-income neighbourhood were more familiar with fast
   food as it is defined in the West, and they dined at fast food
   restaurants more frequently. Furthermore, they were more likely to
   report that they enjoy eating at Western-style fast food restaurants
   compared to their low-income neighbourhood counterparts. On the other
   hand, Indians living in a low-income neighbourhood were more likely to
   buy and report food sold by street vendors as fast food. Overall,
   consumption of fast food was low among a population of Indians from
   Chandigarh. Future studies should investigate whether rapid expansion
   of fast food establishments will lead to an increase in fast food
   consumption among Indians what was noted in other countries undergoing
   rapid economic growth.

References

    1. Isganaitis E, Lustig RB: Fastfood, central nervous system insulin
       resistance, and obesity. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2005, 25:
       2451-2462. 10.1161/01.ATV.0000186208.06964.91.
       Article  CAS  PubMed  Google Scholar
    2. De Maria AN: Of fast food and franchises. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2003,
       41 (7): 1227-1228. 10.1016/S0735-1097(03)00294-8.
       Article  Google Scholar
    3. Cheng TO: Fast food and obesity in China. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2003,
       42 (4): 773-10.1016/S0735-1097(03)00792-7.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
    4. Pereira MA, Kartashov AI, Ebbeling CB, Van Horn L, Slattery ML,
       Jacobs DR, Ludwig DS: Fast-food habits, weight gain, and insulin
       resistance (the CARDIA study): 15-year prospective analysis.
       Lancet. 2005, 365 (9453): 36-42. 10.1016/S0140-6736(04)17663-0.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
    5. Guthrie JF, Lin B-H, Frazao E: Role of food prepared away from home
       in the American Diet, 1977–78 versus 1994–96: Changes and
       consequences. J Nutr Educ Behav. 2002, 34 (3): 140-150.
       10.1016/S1499-4046(06)60083-3.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
    6. French SA, Harnack L, Jeffery RW: Fast food restaurant use among
       women in the Pound of Prevention study: dietary, behavioral and
       demographic correlates. Int J Obes Relat Metab Disord. 2000, 24
       (10): 1353-1359. 10.1038/sj.ijo.0801429.
       Article  CAS  PubMed  Google Scholar
    7. Duffey KJ, Gordon-Larsen P, Jacobs DR, Williams OD, Popkin BM:
       Differential associations of fast food and restaurant food
       consumption with 3-y change in body mass index: the Coronary Artery
       Risk Development in Young Adults Study. Am J Clin Nutr. 2007, 85
       (1): 201-208.
       CAS  PubMed  Google Scholar
    8. Goyal A, Singh NP: Consumer perception about fast food in India: an
       exploratory study. Br Food J. 2007, 109 (2): 182-195.
       10.1108/00070700710725536.
       Article  Google Scholar
    9. Daniel CR, Prabhakaran D, Kapur K, Graubard BI, Devasenapthy N,
       Ramakrishnan L, George PS, Shetty H, Ferrucci LM, Yurgalevitch S,
       Chatterjee N, Reddy KS, Rastogi T, Gupta PC, Mathew A, Sinha R: A
       cross-sectional investigation of regional patterns of diet and
       cardio-metabolic risk in India. Nutr J. 2011, 10 (1): 12-24.
       10.1186/1475-2891-10-12.
       Article  PubMed  PubMed Central  Google Scholar
   10. Popkin B: The nutrition transition and obesity in the developing
       world. J Nutr. 2001, 131 (3): 871S-873S.
       CAS  PubMed  Google Scholar
   11. Yadav K, Krishnan A: National Prevalence of Obesity: Changing
       patterns of diet, physical activity and obesity among urban, rural
       and slum populations in north India. Obes Rev. 2008, 9 (5):
       400-408. 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2008.00505.x.
       Article  CAS  PubMed  Google Scholar
   12. Anand SS, Yusuf S: Risk factors for cardiovascular disease in
       Canadians of South Asian and European origin: a pilot Study of
       Heart Assessment and Risk in Ethnic Groups (SHARE). Clin Invest
       Med. 1997, 20 (4): 204-210.
       CAS  PubMed  Google Scholar
   13. Raji A, Seely EW, Arky RA, Simonson DC: Body fat distribution and
       insulin resistance in healthy Asian Indians and Caucasians. J Clin
       Endocrinol Metab. 2001, 86 (11): 5366-5371. 10.1210/jc.86.11.5366.
       Article  CAS  PubMed  Google Scholar
   14. Lear SA, Toma M, Birmingham CL, Frohlich JJ: Modification of the
       relationship between simple anthropometric indices and risk factors
       by ethnic background. Metabolism. 2003, 52 (10): 1295-1301.
       10.1016/S0026-0495(03)00196-3.
       Article  CAS  PubMed  Google Scholar
   15. Farhana N, Islam S: Exploring consumer behavior in the context of
       fast food industry in Dhaka City. J Soc Sci. 2011, 1 (1): 107-124.
       Google Scholar
   16. Block JP, Scribner RA, Desalvo KB: Fast food, race/ethnicity and
       income A geographical analysis. Am J Prev Med. 2004, 27 (3):
       211-217.
       PubMed  Google Scholar
   17. Reidpath DD, Burns C, Garrand J, Mahoney M, Townsend M: An
       ecological study of the relationship between social and
       environmental determinants of obesity. Health Place. 2002, 8 (2):
       141-145. 10.1016/S1353-8292(01)00028-4.
       Article  PubMed  Google Scholar
   18. Koon T, Chow CK, Vaz M, Rangarajan S, Yusuf S, PURE
       Investigators-Writing Group: The Prospective Urban Rural
       Epidemiology (PURE) study: examining the impact of societal
       influences on chronic noncommunicable diseases in low-, middle-,
       and high-income countries. Am Heart l. 2009, 158 (1): e1-7.
       10.1016/j.ahj.2009.05.008.
       Article  Google Scholar
   19. Chandigarh Guide: What To Eat In Chandigarh.
       [http://www.chandigarh.co.uk/culture/what-to-eat.html]
   20. Pizza Hut: Locations.
       [http://www.pizzahut.co.in/storeLocatorHome.php]
   21. McDonald’s India: Company profile.
       [http://mcdonaldsindia.net/about/company_profile.htm]
   22. RNCOS Industry Research Solutions: Indian Fast Food Market
       Analysis. [http://www.rncos.com/Report/IM264.htm]
   23. Economic Times: Highest average income recorded in Chandigarh.
       2008, [http://www.fch.in/pdf/ncaer-20cities-Pg2.pdf]
       Google Scholar
   24. Powell LM, Chaloupka FJ: Food prices and obesity: evidence and
       policy implications for taxes and subsidies. Milbank Q. 2009, 87
       (1): 229-257. 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2009.00554.x.
       Article  PubMed  PubMed Central  Google Scholar
   25. Maynard ML: From global to local” How Gillette’s SensorExcel
       accommodates to Japan. Keio Commun Rev. 2003, 25: 57-75.
       Google Scholar
   26. Kulkarni S, Lassar W: McDonald’s ongoing marketing challenge:
       social perception in India.
       [http://ojica.fiu.edu/index.php/ojica_journal/article/view/19]
   27. Pieterse JN: Globalisation and culture three paradigms. Econ Pol
       Wkly. 1996, 31 (23): 1389-1393.
       Google Scholar
   28. Vepa SS, M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation, Chennai, India:
       Impact of globalization on the food consumption of urban India.
       2004, [ftp://ftp.fao.org/docrep/fao/007/y5736e/y5736e02.pdf]
       Google Scholar
   29. WHO India: A community based integrated program for control of
       non-communicable diseases in Union Territory of Chandigarh
       (Chandigarh Healthy Heart Action Project-CHHAP). 2007,
       [http://www.whoindia.org/LinkFiles/NMH_Resources_chaap_report.pdf]
       Google Scholar
   30. Fanning J, Marsh T, Stiegart K: Determinants of US fast food
       consumption 1994–1998. Br Food J. 2010, 112 (1): 5-20.
       10.1108/00070701011011164.
       Article  Google Scholar
   31. Mohan V, Sandeep R, Deepa BS, Varghese C: Epidemiology of type 2
       diabetes: Indian scenario. Indian J Med Res. 2007, 125: 217-230.
       CAS  PubMed  Google Scholar
   32. Government of India: Houselisting and housing census data
       highlights-2011-Chandigarh.
       [http://www.censusindia.gov.in/2011census/hlo/Houselisting_Housing_
       2011_Chandigarh.html]
   33. Phillips DL, Clancy KJ: Some effects of “Social desirability” in
       survey studies. Am J Soc. 1972, 77 (5): 921-940. 10.1086/225231.
       Article  Google Scholar
   34. Szekely M, Lustig N, Cumpa M, Mejia JA: Do we know how much poverty
       there is?.
       [http://www.iadb.org/res/publications/pubfiles/pubWP-437.pdf]

   Download references

Acknowledgements

   We are thankful to Ms. Rupali Mahajan and Mrs. Manisha Sharma for their
   assistance in translating the questionnaire for each participant and
   sharing their experiences with the study community. Salim Yusuf is the
   Heart and Stroke foundation of Ontario/Marion W. Burke Chair in
   Cardiovascular Disease. Scott A. Lear is a Canadian Institutes of
   Health Research New Investigator and holds the Pfizer/Heart and Stroke
   Foundation Chair in Cardiovascular Prevention Research at St. Paul’s
   Hospital.

Author information

Authors and Affiliations

    1. Faculty of Health Sciences, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, BC,
       Canada
       Christopher Robert Aloia & Scott Alexander Lear
    2. Department of Biomedical Physiology and Kinesiology, Simon Fraser
       University, Vancouver, BC, Canada
       Danijela Gasevic & Scott Alexander Lear
    3. Faculty of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada
       Salim Yusuf & Koon Teo
    4. Office of Global Health, National Heart Lung and Blood Institute,
       Bethesda, MD, USA
       Arun Chockalingam
    5. Community Medicine, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education
       and Research, Chandigarh, India
       Binod Kumar Patro & Rajesh Kumar
    6. Division of Cardiology, Providence Health Care, Vancouver, Canada
       Scott Alexander Lear

   Authors
    1. Christopher Robert Aloia
       View author publications
       You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar
    2. Danijela Gasevic
       View author publications
       You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar
    3. Salim Yusuf
       View author publications
       You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar
    4. Koon Teo
       View author publications
       You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar
    5. Arun Chockalingam
       View author publications
       You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar
    6. Binod Kumar Patro
       View author publications
       You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar
    7. Rajesh Kumar
       View author publications
       You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar
    8. Scott Alexander Lear
       View author publications
       You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar

Corresponding author

   Correspondence to Christopher Robert Aloia.

Additional information

Competing interests

   The authors declare no competing interests in the writing and
   researching of the information in this paper.

Authors’ contributions

   CRA conceived of the study, constructed the questionnaire, carried out
   the data analysis, and drafted the manuscript. DG carried out the data
   analysis and drafted the manuscript. SY, KT, SAL, and AC participated
   in the design of the study and construction of the questionnaire. RK
   and BKP participated in study design and coordination. All authors
   read, reviewed, and approved the final manuscript.

Rights and permissions

   This article is published under license to BioMed Central Ltd. This is
   an Open Access article distributed under the terms of the Creative
   Commons Attribution License
   (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0), which permits
   unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium,
   provided the original work is properly cited.

   Reprints and Permissions

About this article

Cite this article

   Aloia, C.R., Gasevic, D., Yusuf, S. et al. Differences in perceptions
   and fast food eating behaviours between Indians living in high- and
   low-income neighbourhoods of Chandigarh, India. Nutr J 12, 4 (2013).
   https://doi.org/10.1186/1475-2891-12-4

   Download citation
     * Received: 14 June 2012
     * Accepted: 30 December 2012
     * Published: 07 January 2013
     * DOI: https://doi.org/10.1186/1475-2891-12-4

Share this article

   Anyone you share the following link with will be able to read this
   content:
   (BUTTON) Get shareable link

   Sorry, a shareable link is not currently available for this article.

   (BUTTON) Copy to clipboard

   Provided by the Springer Nature SharedIt content-sharing initiative

Keywords

     * Fast food
     * Neighbourhood income
     * Street food
     * India
     * South Asian

   Download PDF
   Download ePub

   Advertisement
   Advertisement

Nutrition Journal

   ISSN: 1475-2891

Contact us

     * Submission enquiries: jhoan.flores@springernature.com
     * General enquiries: info@biomedcentral.com

     * Read more on our blogs
     * Receive BMC newsletters
     * Manage article alerts
     * Language editing for authors
     * Scientific editing for authors

     * Policies
     * Accessibility
     * Press center

     * Support and Contact
     * Leave feedback
     * Careers

Follow BMC

     * BMC Twitter page
     * BMC Facebook page
     * BMC Weibo page

   By using this website, you agree to our Terms and Conditions,
   California Privacy Statement, Privacy statement and Cookies policy.
   Manage cookies/Do not sell my data we use in the preference centre.
   Springer Nature

   © 2023 BioMed Central Ltd unless otherwise stated. Part of Springer
   Nature.
