   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-56CMWN3

   Asiahighlights logo
     * Thailand-Vietnam-Cambodia
     * Destinations
          + India, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bhutan
          + Caucasus and Central Asia
          + Southeast Asia
          + Top Asia Tours
          + Thailand
          + Vietnam
          + Cambodia
          + Laos
          + India
          + Nepal
          + Sri Lanka
          + Indonesia(Bali)
          + Japan
          + Singapore
          + Myanmar
          + Bhutan
     * Inspiration
       Best Time to Visit
          + Southeast Asia
          + Thailand
          + Japan
          + Vietnam
          + Cambodia
          + India
          + Bhutan
          + Laos
          + Myanmar
          + Nepal
       Top Things to Do
          + Southeast Asia
          + Bhutan
          + Cambodia
          + India
          + Japan
          + Laos
          + Myanmar
          + Nepal
          + Sri Lanka
          + Thailand
          + Vietnam
       Vacation Type
          + Family Tours
          + Honeymoon Ideas
          + Beach Relaxation
          + Trekking Tours
          + Photography Tours
       Festivals & Events
          + Thailand Lantern Festival
          + Diwali in India
          + Tet in Vietnam
          + Holi in India
          + Thai New Year (Water Festival)
     * About Us
     * Contact Us
     * ____________________ [pc-top-navigation-web-search-bg.png]-Submit

   2-Week Southeast Asia Itineraries for Honeymoons, Families, and More.
   Learn more.

   Street Food in India
   Home Destinations India
   Asia Highlights TrustPilot rating

Street Food in India

   By LauraUpdated Oct. 14, 2022

   SKIP AHEAD
     * India's Love of Street Food
     * Best 4 Indian Cities for Street Food
     * 15 Best Indian Street Foods
     * Tips for Eating Street Food

   Nothing helps a person understand a new culture better than exploring a
   country's street food.

   India is so packed full of incredible street food to try that it can be
   hard to know where to start. In this article, you'll find our practical
   guide to the best street food cities, top street food dishes, and some
   information on how to eat street food safely.

   Some of the top street food cities in India are Delhi, Mumbai, and
   Jaipur. Some of our favorite dishes are aloo tikki, pani puri, and pav
   bhaji.
   Best street food in India

India's Love of Street Food

   India has always loved its street food and any city you visit in the
   country will be lined with vendors selling local favorites. On the
   streets, you can find meals, desserts, and refreshing drinks like chai
   or fresh-squeezed juice.

   Indian street food is often spicy, sometimes oily, and always
   delicious. It's also a great equalizer with people from all classes and
   economic backgrounds lining up at popular vendors.

   Indian street food has a long history. On the streets of Delhi, you can
   visit kebab vendors who used to serve the Mughal kings. In Kolkata,
   you'll find fusion street food that was created with British customers
   in mind during colonial times.
   Recommended Articles
   Domestic Flights in India
   Domestic Flights in India
   Top 15 Hotels in India
   Top 15 Hotels in India
   How to Get to Agra, Jaipur, and Mumbai from Delhi
   How to Get to Agra, Jaipur, and Mumbai from Delhi
   Top 15 Places to Visit in Mumbai with Tour Itinerary and Travel Tips
   Top 15 Places to Visit in Mumbai with Tour Itinerary and Travel Tips
   A Guide to Hindu Temples
   A Guide to Hindu Temples
   Weather in July in India [2023]: Too Wet to Travel?
   Weather in July in India [2023]: Too Wet to Travel?
   Bihu 2023 & 2024
   Bihu 2023 & 2024
   Indian Names and Castes: 150 Popular Names with Meanings
   Indian Names and Castes: 150 Popular Names with Meanings

Best 4 Indian Cities for Street Food

   No matter where you go in India, you'll find tasty street food to try
   but some cities are more famous for their local specialties than
   others. Below are our recommended street food destinations.

1. Delhi

   The capital of India not only today but also during the time of Mughal
   kings and British rule, Delhi is a large mixture of cultures and a
   foodies' paradise. From street food to international cuisines, Delhi
   can blow your mind in every expanse.

   Near the Jama Masjid and Chandni Chowk, travelers can visit Mughlai
   food joints that have been open since the time of kings. This is a
   great place to try kebabs, chole, chaat, and momos.

2. Jaipur

   Jaipur is a popular place to visit and is full of great Rajasthani
   dishes. Here you can try kachori, gol gappa (pani puri), kathi rolls,
   and mutton tikka.

   Jaipuri street food is often flavorful, spicy, and sweet.

3. Mumbai

   Not only do you have a chance to taste some incredibly flavorful
   combinations of ingredients, but standing along the humid streets of
   Mumbai, watching countless people go by, is part of what adds to your
   experience.

   Mumbai has quite a unique street food scene and is the place where
   delicacies like pav bhaji and bhelpuri were invented.

4. Kolkata

   Kolkata is often named the number one spot street food city in the
   country by Indians. Kolkata is particularly famous for its quantity of
   vendors and sheer variety of options.

   Kolkata is were the kathi roll, which is a flatbread that is rolled up
   and contains kebabs, egg, onion, lemon, spices, and red chilies.
   Recommended Itinerary
   12-Day Family Holiday in India
   12-Day Family Holiday in India Delhi - Agra - Ranthambore National Park
   - Jaipur - Mumbai - Goa

What Our Customers Said

   2023 Chiang Mai CAD Yipeng Festival

   We got early bird ticket and Bella was assisting us through whatsapp.
   Easy, competitive price, front row tickets. Thanks Bella, for being
   patient explaining everything to me. Highly recommended.
   More
   lily hartati, Dec 2022
   Bella has been an outstanding customer service rep

   Bella has been an outstanding customer service rep. She was responsive
   and knowledgeable. Buying tickets from their website was super easy and
   the whole process was straightforward. Highly recommended.
   More
   Khai, Nov 2022
   Memorable Experience!!!

   I booked tickets to the Chiang Mai Yi Peng Lantern Festival in Nov
   2022. Bella was extremely responsive and helpful!!
   More
   Bowen, Nov 2022
   We had an amazing trip to Thailand

   We had an amazing trip to Thailand with Asiahighlights. Every detail
   was perfectly organised and we always had an instant customer support
   service in case of any issues.
   More
   bugra t, Nov 2022
   Great experience!

   Bella was very helpful and responsive to all our questions. They
   handled all the arrangements very professionally and we had a wonderful
   time! We would definitely recommend and use them again!
   More
   Christie, Nov 2022
   I contacted to Bella from Asia Highlights

   I contacted to Bella from Asia Highlights that to buy tickets to Yi
   Peng Festival in Chiang Mai when i was in my country.She helped me very
   much.You can trust this agency, and i advice Bella as the best!!
   More
   Elena, Nov 2022
   I had booked Chiang Mai Yi Peng Sky Lantern Festival

   I had booked Chiang Mai Yi Peng Sky Lantern Festival with Asia
   Highlight Travel, my travel advisor was Bella Kiu, the experience was
   great, got my tickets , communication was seamless.
   More
   Siskazi Lindeni, Nov 2022
   Thank you Iris Wang & Bella Liu

   I thought “no hope” in getting the tickets to Yee Peng Festival
   organize by CAD. Fortunately, together with Bella Liu, I managed to
   secure all our tickets. No one left behind. This trip to Chiang Mai
   will be a memorable one.
   More
   Little Puppy, Nov 2022

15 Best Indian Street Food Dishes to Try

   Indian street food is considered by some to be the hidden gem of Indian
   cuisine. Not only are the appetizer-sized portions ideal, but there is
   absolutely no skimping on the flavor right down to the tiniest bite.

   Another great thing about Indian street food is the sheet variety of
   options, carnivores will find plenty of dishes that are packed full of
   spiced meats whereas vegetarians and vegans will also be able to find
   plenty of options to try themselves.

   Here are some of our top recommendations.

1. Pani Puri

   Pani puri, India's favorite street food Pani puri can also be eaten
   dry, without the water

   Also known in certain parts of India as gol gappa of puchka, pani puri
   is considered to be the national symbol of Indian street food. Puri is
   a small round ball of crunchy bread.

   To make pani puri, these crunchy balls are punctured on top and filled
   with delicious veggies. The inner filling is often a seasoned mixture
   of mashed potatoes to which mashed chickpeas and bean sprouts are
   occasionally added.

   The pani puris are then garnished with toppings including tamarind and
   mint, finely chopped green chilies, and diced onions. The final touch
   is the water or pani, which is typically flavored with tamarind paste
   and chaat masala.

   Although pani puris are of the most popular street foods around, we
   recommend only trying them when your stomach is used to Indian food.
   For some people, the water in the pani puri can cause stomach upsets.

2. Aloo Tikki

   Aloo tikki indian street food Aloo Tikki is a filling and tasty
   on-the-go meal

   This Indian street food item is the South Asian version of a potato
   croquette. Aloo tikki is made by mashing boiled potatoes which are
   mixed with coriander, onions, and special spices. They are then shaped
   into patties.

   These patties are deep-fried to create a crispy outer layer while still
   remaining melt-in-your-mouth-soft on the inside. These potato cutlets
   are served with mint or tamarind chutney, yogurt sauce, or Maggi
   ketchup which is a South Asian staple.

   You can find aloo tikki mostly in Delhi, although you will see them in
   other parts of India as well.

3. Jhal Muri

   Jhal muri indian street food Jhal muri is a great snack

   Jhal muri is a popular street food of Kolkata. This is the perfect
   on-the-go snack, which are easily available at almost all the corners
   of the city.

   Jhal Muri is a spicy puffed rice snack with traditional Bengali
   ingredients like tamarind sauce and vegetables such as onions,
   tomatoes, and chilies. This dish has a nice balance of sweet, salty,
   tart, and spicy flavors.

   What makes this street food item different from the others is its sharp
   taste, which is due to the presence of raw mustard oil.

4. Pav Bhaji

   pav bhaji indian street food Pav bhaji is also served in some
   restaurants

   Bhaji, which translates to vegetable, is a combination of many
   vegetables such as potatoes, cauliflower, peas, and eggplant that are
   all mashed together and cooked with a signature blend of spices on a
   huge, piping hot griddle called a tava.

   Pav bhaji is served on a pav, or a soft bun, that is sliced in half and
   toasted on a griddle with a generous amount of salted butter and red
   chili powder. Pav bhaji is then garnished with more melting butter,
   chopped onions, cilantro, and lime.

   This dish can be found all over India but originates from Mumbai. While
   not the healthiest option, pav bhaji is surely one of the most
   delicious.

5. Kebabs

   lamb kebabs indian sreet food Lamb kebabs cooking over an open flame

   In India, there are all different types of kebabs available at street
   food vendors around the nation. In the northern cities like Delhi and
   Jaipur, some of the most popular kebabs are mutton served with a mint
   sauce. There are also many types of chicken kebabs served.

   Where there are meat kebabs there is also often a vegetarian version
   available. The most common vegetarian kebab is a paneer kebab, but
   there are also hara bhara kebabs which are made by blending spinach,
   peas, and coriander leaves into a flavorful and meat-textured ball.

6. Chaat

   Chaat indian street food The toppings on papri chaat vary be region

   Chaat is not only the Indian name for "street food" but is also its own
   entire dish. When people order chaat, they are often ordering papri
   chaat which is a plate that is piled high with many ingredients. The
   bottom portion of the plate is filled with papri which are thin pieces
   of fried dough similar to crisps or chips.

   On top of the papri is a pile of other ingredients that varies by
   region. Usually, the toppings will include boiled chickpeas, potatoes,
   and bean sprouts all topped with spices and yogurt. Sometimes even
   mangoes and corn are included.

   Papri chaat is usually eaten by scooping up the ingredients with a fork
   or with the papri on the bottom.

7. Pakoras

   pakoras indian street food Pakoras come in all different shapes and
   sizes and are often served to guests

   Pakoras are not only served at street food vendors but are also often
   served in homes and at restaurants as appetizers. Pakoras are delicious
   fritters that are made by coating mixed vegetables in a spice and
   chickpea flour batter and then deep-frying.

   Pakoras are often served with an array of sauces, or chutneys, of which
   mint chutney is probably the most popular. During midday, it is common
   to see office workers on the streets eating pakoras and drinking chai.

8. Samosas

   samosas indian street food Samosas can have many fillings but more are
   vegetarian

   Samosas are probably the Indian street food that are the most globally
   well-known. Just like pakoras, while samosas are served at street food
   vendors they can also be found in Indian homes and at restaurants as
   appetizers.

   Samosas are fried triangle-shaped pockets that are stuffed with spiced
   veggies like potatoes, peas, and carrots then deep-fried.

   If you are new to Indian street food, then samosas are a great first
   one to try because they are absolutely delicious and unlikely to cause
   a stomach upset.

9. Vada Pav

   vada pav indian street food Vada pav is sometimes called an Indian
   hamburger

   Vada pav is probably the most popular street food in Mumbai and it
   wouldn't be an exaggeration to say that almost a quarter of the city
   eats it every morning for breakfast.

   Vada pav is similar to aloo tikki, but the potato and spice mixture is
   fried then served between two pieces of bread like a hamburger. For
   this reason, vada pav is sometimes referred to as the Indian hamburger
   and is usually well-liked by western travelers.

10. Kathi Roll

   Kathi rolls indian street food Kathi rolls are also served in Jaipur

   Kathi rolls were invented in Kolkata during the period of British
   colonialism. The origin story on the streets is that the rolls were
   made to sell to the British who thought that other Indian food was too
   messy.

   To solved this problem, Indian cooks rolled up some delicious
   ingredients in bread and wrapped the bottom half in a napkin to keep
   everyone's hands clean.

   The flavor profile of a kathi roll is truly unique, with its roti bread
   exterior containing tender pieces of spiced chicken, lamb, or paneer
   with additional toppings like scrambled eggs and mixed raw or cooked
   vegetables.

   The final garnish is usually a variety of sauces, a squeeze of lemon or
   lime, and a sprinkle of chaat masala.

11. Momos

   momos indian street food Momos can be served with a variety of
   different sauces

   Momos are Tibetan dumplings that are extremely popular snacks in India.
   In North India, no matter what city you are in you're sure to run into
   a few momo shops and stands. The closer to the Northeast you are, the
   better the momos are said to be.

   Momos are dumplings that contain various fillings and are served with
   red hot sauces. The most popular momo filling is mutton, but you can
   also find veggie versions. Momos usually come boiled, steamed, or
   fried.

12. Chole Bhature

   chole bhature indian street food Chole bhature is often served with
   fried bread and raw onion

   Chole bhature is a street food that is very popular in Punjab and
   Delhi. This street food is really a hearty and delicious meal that can
   be ordered at street vendors around the city.

   Chole bhature is a chickpea curry that is served alongside bhature
   which is an unleavened fried flatbread. Because of its delicious flavor
   and filling qualities, this dish is probably one of the most common
   breakfast foods in North India besides parathas.

13. Dosa

   dosa and idli indian street food Dosa and idli with sauces is a common
   breakfast

   Dosas are a popular South Indian breakfast food that are made from a
   fermented rice and lentil batter that is poured out into a thin circle
   on a large griddle. When the dosa is cooked it is then rolled up and
   served with a variety of sauces including a vegetable-based stew called
   sambar and coconut cream.

   Dosas can be made plain or stuffed with a variety of fillings including
   a spiced potato mixture, paneer cheese, potatoes, tomatoes, and onions.

14. Kachori

   kachori indian street food Kachoris are a filling snack

   A kachori is a popular Indian snack which is a circular fried bread
   that can be stuffed with many different fillings. In Hindi, the word
   "kachori" just means fried and there are many different types of
   kachoris. The most popular versions include dal (or lentil), onion,
   potato, and more.

   This is a popular breakfast food in Rajasthan.

15. Kulfi

   kulfi indian street food Indian creamy ice cream treats

   Kulfi is the Indian version of ice cream and is made with full-fat milk
   for a richer flavor. The joy of slurping on a creamy chilled kulfi on a
   sunny day is unmatched.

   This dessert is usually flavored with either cardamom or saffron.
   Roadside kulfi is often served in its classic mold or with a decadent
   topping to create kulfi falooda, a type of ice cream float made with a
   base of rose syrup sauce, cooked vermicelli noodles, and basil seeds.
   Recommended Itinerary
   12-Day Historical and Idyllic South India Tour
   12-Day Historical and Idyllic South India Tour Chennai - Pondicherry -
   Thanjavur - Trichy - Madurai - Thekkady - Kumarakom - Mararikulam -
   Cochin

Tips for Eating Street Food in India

   Street food in India is relatively safe, very popular, and enjoyed by
   many.

   However, because your stomach may not be used to all the spices and
   oils and some vendors may not be as clean as others, you must still
   exercise caution when choosing what to try and where to buy it.

   Locals are accustomed to having street food and know where the best
   stalls are. If the locals are avoiding a particular vendor, you should
   too. Go to places where you see they are busy, as this assures quick
   turnover and fresh ingredients.

   If you aren't sure which street stalls are the most popular, feel free
   to ask your hotel staff or guide for advice.

   It's also a good idea to check the cleanliness and surroundings of the
   vendor. If the food is covered, pots or surfaces are clean, and if the
   food is cooked in front of the customers it's a good sign.

   If you want to enjoy fresh fruit juice, stalls vary widely in quality
   and you need to exercise caution with where you choose to go. Have the
   vendor press the juice in front of you and steer clear of anything
   stored in a jug, pre-sliced, or already served in a glass that has been
   sitting in the heat.

   It's also a good idea to avoid fresh fruit, as these may have been
   washed with unfiltered or dirty water which will cause a stomach
   upset.
   Recommended Tours
   7-Day Golden Triangle India Tour
   7-Day Golden Triangle India Tour
   Best South Asia Tours to India, Nepal, Sri Lanka, and Bhutan
   Best South Asia Tours to India, Nepal, Sri Lanka, and Bhutan
   North India Tours, Best Private North India Tours
   North India Tours, Best Private North India Tours
   14-Day Romantic Honeymoon Trip in India
   14-Day Romantic Honeymoon Trip in India
   9-Day India Golden Triangle with Tiger Safari
   9-Day India Golden Triangle with Tiger Safari
   7-Day Off the Beaten Path South India Tour
   7-Day Off the Beaten Path South India Tour
   10-Day North India Tour (Delhi to Shimla)
   10-Day North India Tour (Delhi to Shimla)
   Top South India Tours, Classic India Tour Packages
   Top South India Tours, Classic India Tour Packages

Explore India's Street Food with Asia Highlights

   Street food in India is tasty, cheap, and consequently, very popular.
   Tucking into street food is one of the joys of experiencing India.
   Travel with Asia Highlights where they can take you to enjoy the
   various and delicious street foods that India has to offer.

   At Asia Highlights, we can make sure your trip to India will be a fun
   and memorable one.

Why Travel with Asia Highlights During the Pandemic

     * Tailor-made experience: All of your ideas/needs will be carefully
       considered to create your ideal trip.
     * Worry-free planning: Your 1:1 travel consultant in Asia will take
       all the uncertainty out of your planning, helping you navigate any
       travel restrictions.
     * No-risk booking: 100% refund policy! (up to
       14 days before departure)

   Recommended Itinerary
   15-Day Best of Thailand, Cambodia, and Vietnam Tour
   15-Day Best of Thailand, Cambodia, and Vietnam Tour
   Create my trip

Get Inspired with Our Sample Itineraries

   At Asia Highlights, we create your kind of journey — your dates, your
   destinations, at your pace. You can have any trip tailor made for your
   travel.
   14-Day India, Nepal, and Bhutan Tour
   14-Day India, Nepal, and Bhutan Tour
   15-Day India and Sri Lanka Tour
   15-Day India and Sri Lanka Tour
   Private India Tours, India Private Tour Packages
   Private India Tours, India Private Tour Packages
   10-Day India and Nepal Mini Group Tour for Xmas 2023
   10-Day India and Nepal Mini Group Tour for Xmas 2023
   19-Day Japan, China, Singapore and Bali
   19-Day Japan, China, Singapore and Bali
   9-Day India Highlights and Food Tour
   9-Day India Highlights and Food Tour
   12-Day Historical and Idyllic South India Tour
   12-Day Historical and Idyllic South India Tour
   12-Day India and Bhutan Tour
   12-Day India and Bhutan Tour

More Travel Ideas and Inspiration

   How to Plan a Trip to India 2023/2024: 7 Easy Steps for You
   How to Plan a Trip to India 2023/2024: 7 Easy Steps for You
   Best (and Worst) Times to Visit India 2023 & the Monsoon?
   Best (and Worst) Times to Visit India 2023 & the Monsoon?
   Top 20 Things To Do in India for Families, Couples, Friends... (2023)
   Top 20 Things To Do in India for Families, Couples, Friends... (2023)
   People of India
   People of India
   Weather in India in January: Is It a Good Time to Visit? Where to Go
   Weather in India in January: Is It a Good Time to Visit? Where to Go
   Vietnam vs Thailand: Which to Visit (A Helpful Comparison for You)
   Vietnam vs Thailand: Which to Visit (A Helpful Comparison for You)
   15 Best Places to Visit in Southeast Asia for Couple, Honeymoon,
   Anniversary...
   15 Best Places to Visit in Southeast Asia for Couple, Honeymoon,
   Anniversary...
   Travel with Confidence
   Travel with Confidence

   We are here to help you...
   Start planning your tailor-made tour with 1-1 help from our travel
   advisors. Create My Trip
   4.9 Excellent TrustPilot rating TrustPilot Logo

The Asia Highlights Experience

   1-to-1 Expert Planning

1-to-1 Expert Planning

   Your tour will be tailor-made to suit you by a destination expert. Your
   personal travel advisor will always reply within 24 hours.
   Personal Journeys

Personal Journeys

   Enjoy having your own personal local guide and ride. Explore
   destinations at your own pace. Have as much flexibility as possible.
   Authentic Experiences

Authentic Experiences

   Go beyond the sightseeing. Understand the destinations by practicing
   the local culture and interacting with local people.
   One-Stop Service

One-Stop Service

   Leave all the booking work to us, including international and internal
   transportation, visas, hotels, meals, and activities.

   About Us
   At Asia Highlights, we create your kind of journey — your dates, your
   destinations, at your pace. Not just any journey, but the unique trip
   with the exceptional experiences you're looking for — whether it's a
   family vacation, a honeymoon, or your annual break. more ...
   [grey.gif] Rated 4.9 out of 5 | Excellent
   Featured on
   Medias
     * About us
     * History
     * Our Differences
     * Contact Us

     * Facebook
     * Instagram
     * Pinterest

   [grey.gif] © 2016-2023 Asia Highlights — Discovery Your Way! Privacy
   Policy | Terms

   Asia Highlights uses cookies to give you the best possible service. If
   you continue browsing, you agree to the use of cookies. More details
   can be found in our privacy policy.
   X
