   ﻿

   Rise of the Restaurant Industry in India

   Executive Summary

   While India has always been a food-loving country with each region
   having its own special cuisine, Indians have never been very big on
   eating out. But all that is changing now. The restaurant industry in
   India has been growing at a rapid pace over the last decade or so and
   the growth story is set to continue for the next foreseeable future.

   There were nearly 22 lakh hotel and restaurant establishments in India
   in 2002. The food service or restaurant industry was worth a whopping
   Rs. 43,000 crores in 2010 and growing at a healthy rate of 15-20
   percent annually.

   The growth of the restaurant industry coincided with the growth of the
   great Indian middle class, which was the byproduct of liberalization.
   Rapid urbanization, growing awareness of Western lifestyles, more women
   joining the workforce, and higher disposable income were some of the
   factors that contributed to the growth of the restaurant industry.

   But the real game changer was the entry of American fast food chain
   McDonalds into India in the year 1996. Indians, who had limited
   exposure to American food until then, lapped it up and gave rise to a
   huge upsurge in the quick service restaurant (QSR) industry. The
   following years saw the establishment of many international fast food
   chains such as Dominos, Pizza Hut, KFC, etc.

   But the real game changer was the entry of American fast food chain
   McDonalds into India in the year 1996. Indians, who had limited
   exposure to American food until then, lapped it up and gave rise to a
   huge upsurge in the quick service restaurant (QSR) industry. The
   following years saw the establishment of many international fast food
   chains such as Dominos, Pizza Hut, KFC, etc.

   And while the QSR industry was thriving, Indians discovered fine
   dining, too. The joy of experiential eating was new to the Indian
   consumer, who was hitherto reluctant to spend copious amounts of money
   on dining out. But greater awareness of global cuisines & gourmet food
   as well as the search for a heightened dining experience led them to
   high-end restaurants. Today, the chain fine dine market in India has
   around 50 players with 150-200 outlets spread across various cities and
   is worth Rs. 500 crores.

   Another interesting development for the restaurant industry was the
   rise of niche restaurants serving specific cuisines and specialties.
   Niche restaurants like Oh! Calcutta, Pind Baluchi, and Zambar made
   inroads into the Indian market.

   As India went through another invasion – that of the mall culture –
   Indians were treated to a whole new concept of eating. Food courts made
   their foray into India and thanks to their quick service, value for
   money pricing, and casual atmosphere, had soon captured the imagination
   of the Indian consumer.

   The restaurant industry went through a technological revolution of
   sorts in the last few years with the emergence of the online food
   ordering service. The trend gave rise to many entrepreneurs who began
   food ordering startups like TastyKhana, TinyOwl, and Food Panda.
   Ordering good food was now possible with the press of a button and the
   Indian consumer couldn’t be happier.

   While the restaurant industry in India faces many challenges like high
   taxes and food cost inflation, it remains a major engine of growth for
   the country’s economy contributing significantly to its GDP, paying
   crores of rupees in taxes, and providing employment to millions of
   people. The future looks promising for the Indian food service
   industry.

   1. History of restaurant business in India

   Food is a big part of the Indian culture. Whether it’s an everyday meal
   prepared lovingly for the family or special celebratory culinary treats
   made during festivals – food has always been something that Indians
   have bonded over. If there’s one thing to know about the food culture
   of India, it’s the fact that it is an elaborate, expansive fare. Even a
   regular meal at home consists of various staples like rice, chapati,
   daal, and curry along with accompaniments such as pickles,
   chutneys,papadams, salad, and raita in a large number of households.
   Not only does a typical Indian meal take long to prepare, but it is
   also savored over an extended period of time.

   Indians have traditionally prided themselves for eating home-cooked
   meals prepared by maharajsor cooks in affluent families and women in
   middle and lower-class ones, so the restaurant culture took a while to
   find a place in the country.

   While modern restaurants are believed to be a byproduct of the French
   revolution, food services per se date back to ancient times.

   Public eateries and street vendors were not an uncommon sight in
   ancient Rome, whereas travelers during medieval times often ate at
   monasteries, taverns, inns, and hostelries. But it was the French
   revolution that gave birth to restaurants as we know them today by
   abolishing the monopolistic cooks' guilds. The enterprising French
   chefs took advantage of the opportunity to serve a primarily middle
   class customer base dishes that were prepared to order.

   In India, the earliest reference of restaurants dates back to early 250
   BC when taverns or inns provided food to hungry travelers. Street
   vendors and small stall owners also sold food in local markets and most
   Indian towns and villages.

   But the modern day restaurants probably started mushrooming with the
   spread of colonialism, especially with the growth of the Indian
   Railways and Civil Services. As people started to travel far and wide
   across the country, there was a spurt in eateries that could serve them
   freshly cooked food.

   However, eating out for leisure remained a fairly rare phenomenon for
   majority of the Indian families until the rise of the great Indian
   middle class post liberalization. As Western influences percolated
   down, lifestyles and food habits of Indians began to change.

   More and more young folk began to leave home to work in other cities
   and towns and for them takeaways and dining out became necessary. This
   was accompanied by an increase in disposable income and a general
   willingness to spend on the experience of dining out.

   The resulting growth of the restaurant industry was spectacular to say
   the least. The industry was worth a whopping Rs. 43,000 crores in 2010
   and has been registering a healthy 15-20 percent growth annually,
   according to the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI).

   A study conducted by the Federation of Hotels & Restaurant Association
   of India (FH&RA) estimated that there were approximately 2.2 million or
   22 lakh hotel and restaurant establishments in India in 2002 and the
   hungry Indian wants more.

   2. Food varieties & state wise specialties

   One of the most interesting things about Indian food is that it is as
   varied as the country’s culture, geography, and demography. The cooking
   style varies a great deal as you travel from the North to South or the
   East to West.

   While most restaurants box Indian cuisine into region-specific
   categories like Gujarati, South Indian, Punjabi, Bengali, etc., it’s
   worth noting that each Indian state has its own local specialty.

   Here’s a list of some of state-wise specialties:

   Bihar: Known for sattu (baked chickpea flour), Bihar’s cuisine is
   simple yet wholesome. LittiChokha (wheat flour cake filled with sattu)
   and meat saalan (mutton or goat curry with cubed potatoes) are two of
   its local specialties along with sweetmeats like balushahi and thekua.

   Delhi: The capital of India is also the birthplace of the hugely
   popular Mughlai cuisine. This is the style of cooking prevalent during
   the Mughal era and is defined by the use of whole and ground spices.
   Some of the signature Mughlai dishes include kebabs, koftas, pilafs,
   and biryani. Delhi is also famous of its street food which includes
   parathas, chaats, and kulfi.

   Andhra Pradesh: Spicy and tangy are two words that describe the cuisine
   of this Southern Indian state. The use of tamarind and red chillies in
   both vegetarian and non-vegetarian preparations is widespread. Rice is
   the staple food of Andhra eaten with lentil preparations like daalor
   sambhar as well as curries. Pickles and chutneys are also essential
   part of Andhra cuisine. Seafood is pretty common in the coastal part of
   the state.

   Goa: The food in Goa is deeply influenced by its Hindu culture. But
   centuries of Portuguese rule and the burgeoning international tourism
   also influence the state’s cuisine. Because it’s coastal, seafood forms
   the mainstay of Goan food, but other meats like pork are also hugely
   popular in the state. The use of coconut milk and strong, pungent
   spices is common to Goan cooking.

   Gujarat: This is one of the few primarily vegetarian states in India.
   The cuisine of this state has been made popular by the famous Gujarati
   thali that consists of dishes like daal, kadhi, subzi, papad, and chaas
   (buttermilk) served with rice and roti. What differentiates Gujarati
   dishes from others is the simultaneous use of sweet, salty, and spicy
   flavors.

   Jammu & Kashmir: Jammu & Kashmir has a cuisine that is distinct from
   the rest of the country. It draws its influence from the ancient Hindu
   culture of Kashmir as well as Central Asia, Persia, and North Indian
   plains. Mutton is the mainstay of Kashmiri cooking and there’s a lot of
   use of yogurt and spices like cumin, fennel, red chilli powder, and
   ginger.

   In addition to the state-specific specialties, India is also home to a
   number of fusion cuisines that have taken birth as a result of
   globalization. As more Indians travel abroad and foreigners travel to
   India, a cooking style that is a blend of both Indian and foreign
   cuisines has emerged.

   Thanks to the growth of restaurants, now people don’t have to wait to
   visit a particular state to taste its local cuisine. Most tier 1 and 2
   cities in India have specialty restaurants serving up authentic local
   dishes of different Indian states to people who are missing home food
   or those keen to taste cuisines from different parts of the country.

   3. International players enter India and the rise of the quick service
   restaurants

   If there was one year that changed the restaurant landscape of India it
   was 1996 when the American fast food chain McDonalds entered the
   country. With its colorful mascot, cheap burgers, and consistent
   looking and tasting French fries, McDonalds soon had the middle class
   Indian eating out of its hand.

   Until then, the fast moving foods in India were mostly restricted to
   udupi style dosa-idli-wada fare or local chains like Delhi-based
   Nirula’s serving fast foods such as pizzas and burgers. But McDonalds
   changed all that and set the stage for the entry of many other fast
   food chains like Dominos, Pizza Hut, and KFC.

   In fact, the last two years have seen the entry of various niche fast
   food chains like Burger King, Dunkin Donuts, Taco Bell, and Krispy
   Kreme. Even cafes like Starbucks and Costa Coffee have set up shop in
   several Indian cities.

   The restaurant industry in India is mainly driven by the youth aged
   between 15-44 years. With a population of 1.2 billion and the largest
   number of youth on the planet, opportunities for the quick service
   restaurant industry is huge in India and it’s this potential that
   foreign fast food chains have taken advantage of.

   According to the NRAI, the Indian fast food market is worth $13
   billion, less than one-fifth that of China – the second largest fast
   food consuming market after the U.S. But while China is witnessing a
   decline in fast food sales, the Indian market is expected to grow.

   In fact, the fast food industry in India is growing at 19 percent
   annually, 4 percent faster than the Chinese fast food market, which is
   growing at 15 percent annually.

   It’s not just that these QSR chains have set up shop in India, but they
   are also tweaking their menus and making them more suitable for the
   Indian palate. So, you have a McDonalds on one hand opening up 100
   percent vegetarian outlets in some parts of the country and a Pizza Hut
   on the other adding Indian flavors and ingredients to their pizzas.

   What has worked for the quick service restaurants and international
   fast food chains in India is the shift in the eating out patterns.
   Because of the increase in disposable income, dining out is no longer
   reserved for celebrating special occasions. People go out to eat more
   and try international fast food joints as against the older generations
   that were less experimental in their tastes and not very trusting of
   the food quality and hygiene level maintained in restaurants.

   Also, with an increasing number of young adults embracing the American
   style fast food meals, India’s QSR story is still being written.

   4. Fine Dining comes of age in India

   The changing lifestyle, rise of the nuclear family, more women stepping
   out of their traditional roles to go out and work, rapid urbanization
   are some of the factors responsible for the growth of the restaurant
   industry in India. Added to that is the increased exposure to
   international lifestyles and cuisines. More and more Indians are
   demonstrating a growing appetite for a variety of cuisines ranging from
   Chinese and Italian to Mexican and Middle Eastern.

   Greater awareness of global cuisines combined with a larger disposable
   income is leading many Indian consumers to seek experiential eating or
   fine dining. Fine dining is not just about going out and eating. Fine
   dining is about elevating the dining experience of consumers through
   ambience, décor, presentation of the food, quality of service,use of
   gourmet ingredients, etc.

   High-end or fine dining is slowly coming of age in India. While
   restaurants are placing a lot of emphasis on delivering high quality
   food and excellent dining experience, Indian consumers known to be
   quite cost conscious are willing to spend more and more on experiential
   eating.

   New cooking techniques like sous vide are being experimented with in
   the Indian restaurant kitchen and many of them are inviting foreign
   chefs to give the Indian consumer a taste of authentic global cuisine.

   According to a 2013 NRAI report on food services in India as published
   in hospitalitybizindia.com, the fine dining segment is growing at a
   healthy rate of 15 percent and depends largely on the affluent
   consumer. The report states further that the chain fine dine market in
   India, which has around 50 players with 150-200 outlets spread across
   various cities, is currently worth Rs. 500 crores and estimated to
   reach Rs. 1,010 crores by 2018.

   Taking advantage of this growing trend, many celebrity chefs have set
   up their own signature restaurants in the country. Sanjeev Kapoor of
   KhanaKhazana fame owns the hugely popular Yellow Chilli restaurant
   chain. The restaurant serving contemporary Indian food is doing
   extremely well in many cities across the country.

   Jiggs Kalra, another well-known name in the culinary circles in India,
   founded the Punjab Grill chain of restaurant offering delectable North
   Indian cuisine before selling his stake in early 2012. But Kalra along
   with his son Zorawar are back in the business with the high end Masala
   Library restaurant in Mumbai and Delhi.

   Masala Library is just one of the restaurants set up by the father-son
   duo as part of their JV with Mumbai-based Mirah Hospitality called
   Massive Restaurants. They have another chain of restaurants called Made
   in Punjab, but that’s more casual than Masala Library.

   In addition to this, the Kalras have added another restaurant to their
   repertoire called Pa PaYa. Pa PaYa is a modern Asian bistro and tapas
   bar bringing a hitherto lesser known cooking technique called molecular
   gastronomy to the Indian food table.

   Many Indian chefs based overseas are also returning to India to seize
   the opportunity. They are taking the international dining experience to
   a whole new level with their global menus adapted to traditional Indian
   flavors. One of them is the London-based Michelin star chef Vineet
   Bhatia, who has opened two contemporary Indian restaurants called Azok
   and Ziya in Mumbai.

   It’s not just Indian, but also international chefs who recognize the
   huge untapped market and have set up high end restaurants in the
   country. Ian Kittichai, the famous New York chef, opened a Thai
   restaurant in Mumbai called Koh in August 2010. Since he imports all
   his ingredients, he is able to serve his diners authentic Thai fare
   with a modern twist.

   An interesting trend has begun and due to an increased interest in
   India as an investment destination, many international fine-dining
   chains are waiting in the wings to set up shop in India. The Indian
   consumer has a lot to look forward to in terms of experiential cuisine
   in the coming years.

   5. Niche restaurants make their presence felt

   Another interesting development in the restaurant industry is the rise
   of niche restaurants serving specific cuisines and specialties. No
   longer is the restaurant business divided into North Indian and South
   Indian. There are many more categories of specialty restaurants serving
   delicacies from Kashmir to Kerala.

   It’s simple – people want to taste good food. They want to taste
   different food. The state or cuisine specific restaurants are simply
   meeting the demand of the new Indian consumer who doesn’t shy away from
   experimenting with food that he or she is not entirely familiar with.

   Some of the popular niche restaurants in India include Oh! Calcutta,
   which started out as Only Fish, and served authentic Bengali fare; Pind
   Baluchi offering dishes from the Baluchistan region spanning across
   Pakistan, Iran, and Afghanistan; Gajalee chain of restaurants serving
   Malvani-style seafood; and Zambar serving Chettinad, Kuttanad, Malabar,
   Coorgi, Mangalorean, and Madras curries and vegetables.

   Even lesser known cuisines of Odisha and Nagaland are finding many
   takers with Delhi’s Naga Kitchen and Bangalore’s Dalma doing roaring
   business.

   And it isn’t just traditional and local Indian flavors that are finding
   favor with diners, but also international cuisines. Up until a few
   years ago, the only international cuisine that worked for the Indian
   palate was perhaps Chinese. Since then, the Indian palate has grown to
   accommodate global cuisines.

   So, we have popular London-based Hakassan restaurant serving
   Cantonese-style cuisine, Las Vegas’ Le Cirque serving up authentic
   French and Italian dishes; South African casual dining chain Nando’s
   famous for its peri-peri chicken; and American fast food chain Taco
   Bell serving Mexican inspired dishes setting up shop in India.

   Besides these international chains, there are many restaurants started
   by Indian entrepreneurs serving global cuisines like Thai, Japanese,
   Lebanese, European, and popular American food. If it’s authentic
   traditional and international flavors that the Indian consumer is
   after, these restaurants ensure they get what their desire.

   6. The upsurge of food courts

   The National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) in its report has
   predicted an exponential growth in kiosks and food courts in India. The
   factors responsible for this rapid growth, according to the NRAI,
   include lower rentals as compared to restaurant space, higher return on
   investment, brand penetration, and new location opportunities.

   While they made their debut in the West in the 1980s and have now
   become an essential part of airports, shopping malls, and evening
   business centers and educational institutions abroad, food courts are
   still evolving in India (though growing in popularity rapidly).

   The Indian food court story is mainly being driven by the growing mall
   culture in the country. In fact, food courts and malls have a symbiotic
   relationship wherein food courts help the mall increase footfall and
   revenue by drawing customers, while depending heavily on a steady
   stream of shoppers that the mall attracts to its retail outlets.

   Since many Indians with higher disposable incomes are looking to
   combine their shopping experience with a quick bite, food courts are
   drawing consumers in large numbers. All food courts usually have more
   or less the same floor plan – a common dining area mainly indoors and
   on the top floor of a mall/commercial center with kiosks and stalls by
   multiple F&B vendors surrounding it.

   It’s not hard to understand why these food courts are gaining such
   widespread popularity. One, people can enjoy a vast variety of cuisines
   under one roof unlike a restaurant that typically serves a specific
   cuisine. Two, the prices for food items are generally lower than what
   you would pay at a restaurant, so people find value for money in them.
   And finally, the self-service, fast-paced, and casual atmosphere of
   food courts is a big draw for people who want to make a quick eating
   stop and don’t want the fuss involved in going to a restaurant.

   In addition to the serious shopper, food courts provide an economical
   hangout for youngsters and a convenient getaway for office goers who
   want to escape for a quick bite, a hot cup of coffee, or a sugary
   delight in the middle of the working day.

   Global consultancy Cushman & Wakefield, in a 2014 report on India
   retail, projected the total mall supply by the end of the year in the
   top eight cities of the country to reach approximately 14 million
   square feet (msf), which is nearly 200 percent more than the supply
   received in 2013.

   Since food courts are an essential part of a mall and their most
   important tenant, the food court growth story is set to continue.
   However, the industry does need to overcome certain challenges such as
   heavy reliance on international brands, cafes, and established QSR
   chains. What this means is that you are likely to see more of brands
   like McDonalds, Pizza Hut, and Starbucks rather than smaller and
   lesser-known fast food chains in the malls. Proper seating arrangement
   and vendor combination to ease competition are other two big hurdles
   that Indian food courts have to cross to be able to achieve long-term
   success.

   7. Food moves from the street to online space

   Rapid urbanization, higher disposable income, and all the other factors
   that led to the growing culture of eating out in India are also
   responsible for the emergence of a new crop of diners – the ordering-in
   or take-away diner. While previously there were many caveats to
   ordering-in such as minimum order value, small delivery radius, and
   misunderstood and misplaced orders; the growth of food delivery
   aggregators like FoodPanda and Zomato has changed all that.

   These aggregators, also available as apps on smartphones, have made it
   easier than ever for the Indian diner to order food from his/her
   favorite restaurant without worrying about whether the restaurant
   delivers to their location and if the person at the other end has heard
   their order and/or address right.

   What’s more, there are added benefits to ordering online such as
   consumers can take their time reviewing and choosing their dishes
   without someone breathing down their neck, they can double-check their
   orders before making payment, and they have a variety of payment
   options available to them ranging from the standard cash on delivery
   and credit/debit card payment to online wallets like Paytm and
   Mobikwik.

   According to an article appearing in iamwire.com (Rise of Online Food
   Ordering Startups in India: Opportunities, Challenges and Innovations),
   there has been an exponential growth in food ordering startups in India
   over the past one year.

   TastyKhana and Just Eat, which have been bought over by their biggest
   competitor FoodPanda, raised $5 million and $89.1 million respectively
   from investors. FoodPanda itself has raised a whopping $147.3 million,
   whereas new entrant TinyOwl has managed to raise $20 million of
   investor money.

   Meanwhile, businesses from other areas have also started to enter this
   lucrative market, according to the iamwire article. JustDial, which was
   until now a purely local search service, has spread its wings into the
   online food delivery business and cab aggregator Ola has also entered
   this segment by piloting its food delivery service called Ola Café in
   Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad, and Bengaluru in March this year.

   The Ola Café service claims to deliver food in less than 20 minutes.
   Users can place orders from 12 pm to 11pm and make payment using cash
   or Ola Money.

   Besides these food delivery aggregators, many quick service restaurants
   like Domino’s, McDonalds, and Faasos have also launched their own
   online ordering platforms.

   8. Industry drivers, key statistics, & trends

   Even though there’s a growing eating out trend in India, Indians still
   lag far behind the West and even some Asian countries when it comes to
   dining at restaurants. According to the National Restaurant Association
   of India (NRAI), Chinese eat out 60 times a month; Thai people eat out
   45 times a month; and Indonesians eat out 15 times in a month. Indians,
   on the other hand, eat out about 2-4 times in a month on an average.

   Indians also spend far less money on dining at restaurants as compared
   to some of their Asian counterparts. For example, people in Japan spend
   an average of $213 on eating out, while those in Singapore and Hong
   Kong spend $212 and $195 respectively. The average monthly expenditure
   on eating out is only $20 in India.

   Clearly, Indians have a lot of catching up to do with other countries
   in Asia and the West so far as eating out is concerned. But the
   restaurant industry has nothing to worry about as there are many
   drivers of growth for this business in India. These growth engines are
   both consumer as well as enterprise driven. Some of thekey engines of
   growth, as listed by NRAI in its report, include:

   Changing demographics: There’s a vast pool of working population in
   India, which includes women. There’s an upwardly mobile middle class,
   which is liberal and progressive. In addition to that, there’s a rapid
   increase in nuclear families and all of these factors contribute to the
   growth of the restaurant industry.

   Greater spending power: India’s per capita income has been increasing
   steadily and this has led to an increase in the disposable income of
   Indians. Added to that is the concept of double-income households which
   is the result of more women joining the workforce. All this has led to
   an increase in the purchasing power of Indians, which is driving the
   growth of the food service industry.

   Increased exposure: More and more Indians are traveling abroad, which
   has increased their awareness about global cuisines. Popular food and
   cooking shows on television such as MasterChef have also led to greater
   exposure to gourmet food.

   India as a travel destination: With India projecting itself as a major
   tourist destination to the world abroad, restaurants in the country
   have all the incentive to expand their repertoire and up the level of
   their services to cater to a growing international market.

   Infrastructure and IT development: For the customers, this has meant an
   enhanced dining experience due to factors like lower waiting time and
   improved ordering, which keeps them coming back for more and drives the
   growth of the industry. For restaurants, infrastructure and IT
   development helps them control costs, minimize waste, maintain quality,
   etc. and helps them improve their bottom-line. IT-driven business
   intelligence and data analysis helps them streamline their business and
   improve results.

   According to NRAI’s 2013 India Food Services Report as published in
   hospitalitybizindia.com, the food service industry in India is worth an
   estimated Rs. 247,680 crore ($48 billion) and projected to grow to Rs.
   408,040 crore ($78 billion) by 2018 at a CAGR of 11 percent.

   The unorganized sector, which includes the dhabas and roadside vendors,
   comprises 70 percent of the market and is worth Rs. 1,72,685 crore .
   The organized sector consisting of fine & casual dining restaurants,
   bars & lounges, quick service restaurants or QSRs, food courts, cafes,
   and kiosks, holds the remaining 30 percent share of the market.
   However, the organized food service industry is projected to grow
   rapidly at a CAGR of 16 percent and its market value is expected to
   reach Rs. 145,770 crore ($28 billion) compared to the current Rs.
   67,995 crore by 2018.

   The restaurant industry is a major contributor the country’s economy.
   According to the NRAI’s 2013 report, the food service industry
   contributes approximately 2.3 percent of the total GDP and is set to
   become a much larger contributor when compared to other service
   industries over the next few years.

   Besides, the industry is a significant tax contributor and employer.
   According to NRAI data, the food services industry was providing direct
   employment to nearly 5 million people in 2010, which is five times more
   than the IT sector and 10 times more than the hotel business. It was
   also contributing a whopping Rs. 1,000 crores annually in Value Added
   Tax (VAT).

   The future looks promising for the restaurant industry albeit some
   challenges such as high food inflation, over licensing, high taxation,
   introduction of new taxes, and increased competition to name a few.

   But a fast maturing market that is becoming increasingly experimental
   with its food, the growing ease and convenience of ordering in, the
   introduction of new and interesting menus like breakfast and high tea,
   the widening reach of social media, and international chains scrambling
   to set up shop in the country – all point to a healthy growth for
   India’s food service sector over the next few years.

   About AIMS Institutes:

   The restaurant industry in India has witnessed an unprecedented
   transformation with the entry of a variety of national and
   international players. This has, in turn, given birth to a huge demand
   for qualified professionals in the sector and all related industries.
   Thanks to the technological revolution, Indian restaurant setups have
   now gone online to gain more customers and serve them better.

   But the demand-and-supply graph isn’t quite the way it should be. With
   a noticeable shortage of skilled professionals, the restaurant industry
   presents a whole gamut of opportunities waiting to be grabbed. Enter
   culinary arts institutes. Traditional cooking schools and hotel
   management colleges have now expanded the range of education they offer
   in order to satisfy industry demands. Foreign universities are
   investing time and money to train Indian students to make them able and
   employable.

   In this mishmash of culinary arts schools, AIMS Institutes stand out as
   the frontrunners. Their Department of Hotel Management has been
   consistently ranked third in Karnataka, fourth in South India and
   Twelfth in India. Moreover, the institute’s association with ALMA,
   Italy, which is the world’s leading international educational and
   training centre for Italian Cuisine, has made it one of the most
   sought-after colleges in India with the following courses on offer:

     * Bachelor of Hotel Management (BHM)
     * Bachelor Degree in Hospitality Administration and Event Management
     * AIMS – ALMA Dual Degree (BHM + ALMA)
     * Diploma in Culinary Arts of Italian Cuisine
     * AIMS – ALMA Certificate Programme in Culinary Arts of Italian
       Cuisine
     * Master of Tourism Administration (MTA)

   Recognized as one of the top three Hospitality Education institutes in
   Bangalore, the students of AIMS Institutes have access to the best
   industry tools and technologies, opportunities to meet and interact
   with industry professionals, star up-to-date with the latest trends and
   land great job opportunities.

   Learn more about the dual degree at AIMS Institutes.
