   #top

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WKQFWCS

   BP Guide India - Find the perfect gift, every time

     * Home

     Category

     Indian Street Food Has a Special Space in the Gastronomic History of
   India. What Makes it So Special & the 10 Dishes That Top Every Indian's
   List of Favourite Street Food (2019)

   Indian Street Food Has a Special Space in the Gastronomic History of
   India. What Makes it So Special & the 10 Dishes That Top Every Indian's
   List of Favourite Street Food (2019)

Indian Street Food Has a Special Space in the Gastronomic History of India.
What Makes it So Special & the 10 Dishes That Top Every Indian's List of
Favourite Street Food (2019)

     * Facebook Share
     * Tweet
     * Google Plus Share

   Share
   15/03/2019 Newest

   Indian street food is probably the first thing that comes to mind of
   food lovers when they think or talk about food. You've come to the
   right place if you want to know about and try the most mouth-watering
   foods from India. Learn more on your favourite dishes and why you
   should try some others. These are favourites that most Indians swear
   by.
   Table of contents
     * Why is Street Food Loved Around the World?
     * The Vast Diversity of Indian Street Food
     * What Makes Indian Street Food so Popular
     * The Top 10 Street Foods of India
     * Bonus: The Famed Sandwiches of Mumbai

   Related articles
     * Ever Wondered How to Make Paneer at Home? Here is the Complete
       Guide to Take Out Soft and Creamy Paneer from Milk at Home (2021)
     * Want More Tantalizing Breakfast Ideas? Here are 6 Scrumptious Egg
       Recipes for Breakfast That Will Make You Want to Eat Eggs All Day
       (2020)
     * Want to Pamper Your Taste-Buds this Pongal? Here are Mouth-Watering
       Pongal Recipes You can't Miss in 2019

   Back to top

Why is Street Food Loved Around the World?

   [g3LuLyDGtK.jpg]

   Ask any food lover who loves to eat at a roadside food stall as to why
   they're so fond of street food? We bet, you won't just get a single
   reason, because there are so many reasons behind the cravings for
   street food throughout the world. To name some:
     * Street foods are the cheapest. For people who don't have a
       sufficient income, people who are bored of eating a home-cooked
       meal, unemployed people, Indian street food comes as a blessing for
       everyone. No matter who you are or what your financial status is,
       street food is something that fits everyone's pockets.
     * Many times when you walk on the road, the smell of some roadside
       dish hits you, and you decide to stop and have a plate of your
       favourite food item. And even if you're full, you still choose to
       have it, because there's always a particular space reserved for
       such mouth-watering food.
     * Ever observed the people who eat roadside food? If you did, then
       you must be aware of the way they eat - some are slurping, some are
       licking their fingers, some are just busy smelling the food before
       they finally decide to eat. This is why most people love eating at
       the roadside. It feels great to eat the way you want to, to eat
       like a hungry animal and still not get judged. Because let's be
       honest, everyone over there does the same thing.
     * Who would doubt the authenticity of this sentence when we say that
       street foods are tasty! You won't find a single food stall across
       the world where people don't enjoy the taste of the food they're
       offered.

   Back to top

The Vast Diversity of Indian Street Food

   [lk4Oztl5Tq.jpg]

   India is a country where you will find diversity in everything. The
   difference in culture, diversity in languages spoken, a variety of
   people, and diversity in food as well. Every Indian state, every Indian
   city has its speciality when it comes to street food. Can you roam the
   streets of Indore without having the mouth-watering 'Poha and Jalebi'
   which is the finest street food and speciality of Indore? Can you walk
   through the busy and crowded lanes of Mumbai without grasping a
   'Vadapav'? What about the lip-smacking 'Aloo-tikkis' of Lucknow, Uttar
   Pradesh or the most popular 'Idlis and Vada-Sambhar' of Chennai? You
   won't be able to resist the temptation! When it comes to street food,
   no other country can beat India where not just one or two or three, but
   every single state and city has its variety of delicacies.
   Talk about the famous 'Bikaneri-Kachori' of the royal state of
   Rajasthan, India. Bikaner is noted for its amazing cuisines and
   delectable street foods. Not just Bikaneri-Kachori, the desert state is
   also favourite for its famous Dal-Baati Churma and Pakoras. These food
   items can be found in almost every street stall of Bikaner.
   Back to top

What Makes Indian Street Food so Popular

   [TRNhejY0VJ.jpg]

   The popularity of Indian street food can be known from the very fact
   that every day millions of people from different regions prefer to eat
   roadside food from various street vendors. According to our Ancient
   Hindu Dietary rules, there are two concepts when it comes to food -
   Kaccha food and Pakka food. These concepts are still at play even
   today. Kaccha food was traditionally only consumed at home because
   Kaccha food such as rice and dal require certain kind of purifying
   rituals to deliver them safe for people to eat whereas Pakka food items
   can be securely consumed outside one's house. Hence, Indian street
   foods are generally made from the Pakka food items because that's what
   is acceptable amongst most consumers.
   If we take a look at the health and hygiene aspect of Indian street
   food today, it is no more unclean or unhealthy (unless you eat from
   some very rearward area.) You will find that almost every other Indian
   street food vendor uses vegetables, pulses as well as many ayurvedic
   species such as garlic and turmeric. All these healthy ingredients add
   to the richness of street food. Moreover, many street vendors these
   days wear disposable gloves to avoid any health problem.
   Western visitors when in India often try to stay away from roadside
   stalls because they're concerned about the hygiene. But if you ask me,
   Indian street foods are way much healthy, better, and freshly cooked as
   compared to any tourist restaurant cuisine. Unlike restaurants where
   you're not even sure whether the food that you're being served is newly
   prepared or old or might even be leftover food, street vendors
   guarantee you to offer the best and freshly prepared food. It satisfies
   us to see that the food that we're going to eat is cooked right in
   front of our eyes. What can be better than this? The street vendors of
   India make a living out of their stalls, so they'll always make sure to
   satisfy their customers so that the customers visit again. And which is
   why they also make sure that the food is not only tasty but at the same
   time fresh and hygienic. It is why we Indians can proudly say that our
   street foods are the best and the most popular ones.
   Back to top

The Top 10 Street Foods of India

   [n9sSkLLg4P.jpg]

Chole Bhature

   [8D8vyit7OC.jpg]

   Chole bhature is a Punjabi dish that belongs to the northern part of
   the Indian subcontinent. Although Chole Bhature is widely popular in
   Punjab, it is also famous in the urban cities of India. Apart from
   Punjab, Delhi is the best place to have the luscious Chole Bhature. The
   combination of spicy chana masala (Chole) and soft Bhature can make any
   food lover's day. One can find this absolute wealthy treat almost
   everywhere on the streets of Delhi. Paharganj, Kamla Nagar, Sardar
   Bazar are the areas in Delhi where you can enjoy the best piping hot
   plate of Chole bhature.

Momos

   [UqqsNGzZRW.jpg]

   Momos primarily originated from the Tibet. Later the dish spread to the
   neighbouring countries. It is a dish that is quite popular in the
   Northern part of India, Momo is a traditional daintiness for the
   Nepalese and Tibetan communities. One can find different versions of
   Momos in many states and cities of India. But if you want to enjoy the
   authentic taste of Momos, then Northeast India have it best. Go out on
   the streets of Nepal, Ladakh, Jammu, and Tibet, and you can find people
   enjoying the hot steamed dumpling of Momos. The outer cover of a Momo
   is generally made of water and white flour dough. At times a little
   baking soda is added to improve the texture of the dough. Momos are of
   two types - steamed and fried. You can easily find two kind of Momos on
   the streets of Nepal and they are commonly served with a dipping tomato
   sauce.

Ice Gola

   [RJj1uc8cWo.jpg]
   Source ThebetterIndia

   Ice-gola, Barf ka gola, Chuski, you name it! It is believed that the
   Japanese were the ones who invented the Ice-gola. Back in the era of
   794 to 1185 AD ice was considered very rare, and during the Heian
   period, ice would be brought down from mountains and later they used to
   store it in a cave - which translates to ice room. This is what people
   believe to be the story behind the Ice-gola. Whatever the story behind
   the Ice-gola is and whoever invented this refreshing Ice-gola, we owe a
   lot to them. Now, do you ask where one can find the best gola in India?
   It's everywhere! You heard that right, no matter where you belong to in
   India, ice gola is something you can't resist yourself from having.
   Those combined delicious flavours with icy syrups is something people
   long for during summers. Many shops provide some excellently flavoured
   Ice-gola, but nothing is better than having a cold, refreshing Ice-gola
   on the roadside streets while beating the scorching heat and reliving
   those happy childhood days once again.

Dahi Puri

   [pSZBYL52i2.jpg]

   For all the chaat lovers out there, Dahi Puri is a decadent treat for
   them. Dahi Puri is most popular in the state of Maharashtra, India and
   it's believed to be originated from the Mumbai city. Walk into the
   streets of Mumbai, and you will come across numerous street stalls
   offering Dahi Puri along with other famous chats. One gets to eat like
   some 5 or 6 Dahi Puris per plate. Just like Pani puri, each Dahi Puri
   should be eaten whole so that you don't miss the taste of all the
   flavours and textures. It is best enjoyed when it is eaten in one go.

Pav Bhaji and Vada pav

   [D5VJeqoiaV.jpg]

   Mumbaikars have an extraordinary attachment with the 6 ladi or 8 ladi
   pavs. Just utter the word 'pav', and we will introduce you with a wide
   variety of pav dishes. Pav-bhaji and Vada-pav are only the two most
   popular amongst them. Both these dishes originated from Mumbai.
   Do you know there's one fascinating story behind how the pav bhaji was
   introduced? Back then, Mumbai was full of labour class and mills. Due
   to a lot of work, the workers didn't have much time to sit comfortably
   and have their lunch, they used to get very short lunch breaks. At the
   same time, their work demanded that they shouldn't eat anything heavy.
   That is when the roadside vendors arranged the pav bhaji. Interesting!
   Isn't it? Pav bhaji is a thick curry where many vegetables are used
   such as onions, green peas, capsicum, tomatoes, potatoes, cauliflower,
   and many more. It is served with soft pav with deep fried butter.
   Vada pav, the name in itself is enough to brighten the mood of every
   Mumbaikar. This Indian burger is the favourite of everyone. And if you
   ever stepped in Mumbai, you cannot leave without eating the all-time
   favourite Vada pav. There isn't just one best place to eat Vada pada.
   There are hundreds of roadside stalls across Mumbai offering the best
   Vada pav. The potatoes filled with desi species, coated with gram flour
   batter when served hot with the pav can make anyone the fan of Vada pav
   for a lifetime.

Idli, Dosa and Vada

   [Jn7Y6ta99N.jpg]

   Idli, Dosa, and Vada all these dishes originate from the southern part
   of India and they are the most popular mouth-watering delicacies of
   south India. South-Indians love to have these dishes as their
   breakfast. All the three dishes have rice flour batter as their main
   ingredient. When it comes to Dosa, there are two types of dosas. One is
   Masala Dosa where a mixture of vegetables are added on top of the Dosa
   batter and is cooked on a hot pan. And the other is Plain Dosa. Idlis
   and Plain Dosa are served with the coconut chutney while Medu Vada is
   served with hot sambhar.

Aloo Tikki

   [VB6JG8OiaE.jpg]

   Aloo Tikki is another all time favourite snack that is served at the
   roadside stalls all over India. Aloo tikki originated from northern
   India and is made of boiled potatoes with added species. This
   North-Indian snack is served hot with sauce. Every city has a different
   name for Aloo tikki. For example, in Mumbai it's called Ragda Patties
   and is sold at various chaat stalls. Aloo tikki in Mumbai is popular at
   the Chowpatty Beach.

Meat Rolls and Kulcha

   [JXPmwLSeTq.jpg]

   A Meat-roll or Roulade is a delicious dish which can be found in both
   context of a sweet as well as a savoury. One of the examples of sweet
   Roulade is Swiss role. A meat roll contains part of steak which is then
   rolled with a filling like green veggies, cheese or any other meat.
   Such a dish is locked with the help of toothpick or with a strand of
   fibre.
   Kulcha, on the other hand, is typically a flatbread which is believed
   to originate from the southern region of Asia or the Indian
   subcontinent. The speciality of this dish is that earthen clay oven,
   also known as tandoor is used to bake Kulcha which results in an
   amazing taste. It can be made with many variations like Plain Kulcha or
   nowadays even stuffed ones are very popular, depending upon the liking
   of a person.

Poha

   [HP0J7GpyEP.jpg]

   Did you know, according to nutritionists, poha is one of the healthiest
   Indian breakfasts dishes. Poha is a good source of iron, carbohydrates,
   and essential vitamins. Poha mainly originated from Maharashtra, India.
   In Maharashtra, 'kanda poha', or onion poha, is the most popular one.
   This Indian dish is also prepared in other states of India such as
   Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, and Telangana. You can't find as
   many stalls of vendors selling poha as that of other famous street
   chaats. But there are areas in Maharashtra where you can enjoy the best
   poha dishes.

Pani Puri

   [USNp55AD1w.jpg]

   This round, hollow, and crunchy puri ranks on the top list of every
   street food lover. Different regions have different names for
   pani-puri. In Madhya Pradesh it is called fulki, paani-patashi in
   Haryana, gol-gappa in Uttar Pradesh, pakodi in Gujarat and the list is
   endless.
   It is believed that pani-puri originated from the epic Mahabharata,
   here is the story behind it. When a newly wed Draupadi returned home,
   her mother-in-law Kunti gives her a task to test her capabilities. She
   gave Draupadi a little amount of wheat flour, and some leftover
   potatoes and instructed her to make some food that would satisfy the
   hunger of her sons. It was then that Draupadi invented pani-puri and
   impressed with her daughter-in law's capability, Kunti sanctified the
   dish with immortality. The accuracy of the history is yet to be found
   out though. Whatever the past might be, one thing is clear, and it is
   the fact that all over India, people love pani-puri.
   Back to top

Bonus: The Famed Sandwiches of Mumbai

   [u0uJ9ddOD4.jpg]
   Source SandwichTribunal

   Along with all the Street Foods of India, it would be unfair if we
   didn’t mention the most popular ‘Sandwiches of Bombay'. This street
   food is the favourite of every single person residing in Bombay. You
   will find many stalls lined up with different versions of sandwiches in
   Bombay.
   After all the information about the Street Foods of India, do you now
   believe that we Indians have the origins of some of the world's best
   street foods?!

   Related articles
     * Embark on a Journey to Discover India. Your Guide to the Best
       Places to Visit in India in Every Season (2020)
     * Lose Yourself in the Wild Beauty of River Ganges the Right Way by
       Camping at Rishikesh: 10 Campsites for an Adventurous Camping
       Experience!
     * Planning to Visit India's Silicon Valley? Fun Things to Do in
       Bangalore to Get the True Flavour of this Happening City (2020)
     * Booze, Beaches & Nightlife, But There's One More Thing for Which
       Goa is Famous for(2020): Must-Try Water Sports in Goa for a
       Thrilling Experience! (2020)
     * 10 Best Restaurants in Bandra: from Fine Dining to Hipster Cafes
       and Budget Eats, These are the Places You Absolutely Need to Eat At
       in 2019!

   From our editorial team

   Make Sure You Try Indian Street Food

   Street Food is present throughout the world. But if you're a food lover
   and you haven't heard or tried food of the Indian streets by now,
   you're missing out on something real amazing! Go ahead, rather than
   going out in those fancy big restaurants, try something new every day
   because there's so much variety out there, you're not going to regret
   it!
     * Facebook Share
     * Tweet
     * Google Plus Share

   Tag
     * cheap
     * food
     * street food

   Recipient
     * Boyfriend
     * Girlfriend
     * Friends
     * Kids
     * Dad
     * Mom
     * Husband
     * Wife
     * Siblings
     * Family

   Special Occasions
     * Raksha Bandhan
     * Diwali
     * Wedding
     * Anniversary
     * Birthday
     * Christmas

   Product Types
     * Return Gifts
     * Kitchen Items
     * Consumer Electronics
     * Male Fashion
     * Female Fashion
     * Accessories
     * Kids Fashion
     * Food

   ____________________ Search
   Popular Articles
     * 10 Curated Kyoto Bike Tours for You! Explore This Gorgeous City And
       Get a Closer Look at Its Amazing Sights 10 Curated Kyoto Bike Tours
       for You! Explore This Gorgeous City And Get a Closer Look at Its
       Amazing Sights
     * Bar Hopping in Tokyo! 10 Tours to Get a Taste of This Fascinating
       City's Happening Nightlife Bar Hopping in Tokyo! 10 Tours to Get a
       Taste of This Fascinating City's Happening Nightlife
     * Authentic Flavours and Cultural Immersion! 10 Food Tours in Tokyo
       To Help You Uncover Japanese Culinary Delights Conveniently
       Authentic Flavours and Cultural Immersion! 10 Food Tours in Tokyo
       To Help You Uncover Japanese Culinary Delights Conveniently
     * Looking for a Stylish and Comfortable Laptop Backpack? Discover the
       Best Backpack for Laptops Currently Available in India and How to
       Choose the Best One (2022) Looking for a Stylish and Comfortable
       Laptop Backpack? Discover the Best Backpack for Laptops Currently
       Available in India and How to Choose the Best One (2022)
     * Banish Those 4 PM Hunger Pangs Away with These 30 Best Evening
       Snacks! Healthy, Yummy and Easy to Make Options, Just for You
       (2022) Banish Those 4 PM Hunger Pangs Away with These 30 Best
       Evening Snacks! Healthy, Yummy and Easy to Make Options, Just for
       You (2022)

   Follow us on Instagram!

     * Privacy Policy
     * Terms of Service
     * About us
     * Contact us
     * BP Guide Indonesia

   Copyright © 2023 BP Guide India - Find the perfect gift, every time All
   Rights Reserved.
