   #blog » Feed blog » Comments Feed blog » Which Indian Street Foods
   Needs to Go Global? Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

   blog
   (BUTTON)

     * Home
     * About Us
     * Our Menu
          + Breakfast Menu
          + Menu
     * Gallery
     * Testimonials
     * Locate Us
     * Order Online

     * Email : amritsrrestaurant@gmail.com
     * CALL NOW : +971 4 3278622 / +971 50 6780096

     *
     *

   blog

     * Home
     * About Us
     * Our Menu
          + Breakfast Menu
          + Menu
     * Gallery
     * Testimonials
     * Locate Us
     * Order Online

    1. Home
    2. Indian food
    3. Which Indian Street Foods Needs to Go Global?

Which Indian Street Foods Needs to Go Global?

   Indian Street Foods that Needs to Go Global
   03 Apr
   In: Indian food By: Chef Negi 0 Comment 2752 Views

   Indian street food is popular across the globe for its diversity, spicy
   flavour and amazing taste. Some popular street dishes found in
   different cities of India are Aloo Tikki, Chaat, Pani Puri/Gol Gappe,
   Misal Pav, vada pav Chhole Bhature, Litti chokha and more.

   Besides Indians, many foreign travellers swear by any Indian dish
   that’s easily accessible in the streets of India. Therefore, these
   Indian foods have become popular in different parts of the world.

   You can visit any Indian restaurant in any part of the world to satisfy
   your craving for scrumptious Indian street food that’s likely to
   tantalise your tongue in no time.

What is Indian Street Food?

   Indian street food is often made of a medley of various seasoned
   ingredients, flavourful spices, fresh vegetables, and sweet & sour
   sauces.

   This food variety varies from one region to another. It can incorporate
   dumpling-like recipes like momos or fried dough without or with
   fillings such as chaat papri, samosa, etc.

   You will be amazed to know that a wide range of culinary landscapes of
   different Indian dishes expands throughout Dubai and Bangkok in
   different forms of dosas and Kati rolls to spicy snacks like Aloo Tikki
   or Chaat.

   People in different parts of the world are also building an appetite
   for these foods. That’s why it’s not difficult to find a good Indian
   restaurant offering traditional Indian street food in various parts of
   the world.

   There are a homely feel and comfort factor in every Indian food. That’s
   the reason why this has become a commonplace food in India and
   intrigues so many people due to different cuisine options for different
   types of food lovers.

Is Indian Street Food Healthy?

   A mere mention of Indian street food can easily make mouths water just
   on hearing its name. However, many people still stay away from street
   food, as it falls into the category of junk food.

   However, the truth is that if you go to any good Indian restaurant, you
   get a variety of dishes to choose from. Many street food varieties are
   indeed devoid of significant health benefits and essential nutrients.

   But some Indian street food dishes may not necessarily include in the
   list of foods to avoid. Moreover, a wide selection of this food variety
   is quite healthy. This is because Indian street food variety available
   in restaurants is prepared with fresh ingredients and different spices
   that are known to be beneficial for health.

   We won’t say that Indian street food is healthy. But if prepared with
   freshly cooked vegetables and other health-benefiting spices in a
   sanitized restaurant kitchen, it can be quite a safe and healthy option
   to eat with your family and friends.

10 Indian Street Foods that need to go global

   While you can choose from a wide variety of Indian street foods, some
   dishes are so delicious that you cannot miss tasting them. Here is a
   list of the popular street food that must go global:

1. Aloo Tikki

   Aloo Tikki

   Aloo Tikki is the South Asian variety of potato croquette. It is made
   of mashed boiled potatoes that are mixed with onions, coriander and
   spices. After that, these are shaped in round patties.

   These round patties are further deep-fried to form a crispy exterior
   that’s still soft enough to melt in the mouth. The spicy potato cutlets
   are served with tamarind and mint chutney, tomato ketchup or yoghurt
   sauce and hence, a perfect South Asian staple.

2. Bhelpuri

   Bhelpuri

   Bhelpuri is a blast of different flavours in your mouth. It is a West
   Indian street food item that combines salty, sweet and spicy flavours
   in the form of one delicious snack. It is also a vegan dish and
   traditionally served in a simple paper cone.

   Recently, it’s also being served as a common appetizer in dinner
   parties, as it is easy to make. For preparing bhelpuri, pre-prepared
   ingredients are tossed into a large bowl, mixed with chutneys and
   viola!

   All the ingredients contain sev (fried noodles made of chickpea flour
   and puff rice), diced onions, chaat masala and green chillies. Finally,
   cilantro is added as a garnish to make the dish presentable.

3. Chaat

   Chaat

   It is another common Indian street food that’s mostly found in
   different regions of North India. However, chaat is a term used
   generally for South Asian street food. Many people in the world are
   fond of Indian Chaat.

   Chaat includes papri that’s further layers with boiled potatoes, boiled
   chickpeas or maybe bean sprouts. It is further layered with seasoned
   yoghurt sauce.

   According to different types of chaat varieties, its components can
   also be added to samosa or Aloo Tikki. Finally, the dish is served with
   sev and tamarind chutney.

   The different kinds of Chaat available in different Indian restaurants
   across the world are Peas and Aloo Chaat, Idli Chaat, Sprouts Chaat,
   Oats Chaat, Raw Mango Chaat, Cutlet Chaat, Palak Chaat, Boondi Chaat,
   Cutlet Chaat, etc. Not only that but there are also over 500 varieties
   of Chaat that must be available globally, as these are quite healthy
   alternatives to other junk food.

4. Dosa

   Dosa

   Dosa is a perfect crepe, which is made from a fermented batter of black
   lentils and rice. Although it is a major South Indian cuisine savoury,
   Dosa is commonly found in various food stalls in different parts of
   India.

   Dosa is made of stuffed or plain crepe. The stuffed dosa is usually
   filled with mashed potatoes, onions and other ingredients. Depending on
   the type of dosa, it can also be stuffed with paneer, mutton or other
   food items. Some Indian families also serve dosa with shredded cheese
   that tastes amazing.

   The most common chutneys served with dosa are green chutney and coconut
   chutney. Even sambar is served with dosa. Milagai podi (also called
   gunpowder) mixed with gingelly oil is another commonly found dosa
   condiment for dosa purists.

5. Kati Roll

   Kati Roll

   Have you ever tried Kati roll? If not, you must try this tasty Indian
   dish in the lunch hour to fill your heart and stomach. Besides lunch
   hour, it can be enjoyed as a filling breakfast or evening snacks if
   you’re too hungry.

   No matter whenever you prefer to have it, Kati roll is likely to become
   one of your favourite Indian food items as soon as you taste
   it. Although Kati Rolls are considered West Bengal’s burrito, they are
   a closer relative of Frankie or shawarma (if you’ve tasted these
   dishes, you’d get an idea).

   The unique flavour of the Kati roll is distinctive. It’s roti exterior
   envelopes soft spiced paneer, lamb or chicken, in addition to some
   tasty toppings that vary from mixed cooked/raw vegetables to scrambled
   eggs. Finally, it’s garnished with different types of spicy sauces, a
   sprinkle of chaat masala and some lemon or lime squeeze.

6. Kebab

   Kebab

   Kebab is a South Asian dish that includes different types of vegetables
   or marinated pieces of fish or meat (grilled or roasted) for evoking
   charred flavour.  Indian-style kebabs taste out of this world and are
   worth your time and money, as they guarantee to please your taste buds
   as soon as you take a bite.

   According to the type of restaurant you visit, Indian-style kebabs are
   prepared in different types of spice blends that vary from spicy and
   sweet to sour flavours. Usually, the murgh malai (which is a Hindi
   translation of “tangy chicken”) is the less spicy flavour of kebab. The
   most famous kebabs that many people around the world love are chicken
   tikka and Tangri chicken.

   But if you find tandoori chicken or chicken tikka too mainstream, you
   may think of taking your kebab game to another level by ordering it in
   different flavours like seekh, hariyali, reshmi and shami kebabs. These
   are some of the best kebab varieties to enjoy the flavours of the
   Indo-kebab world.

7. Kulfi

   Kulfi

   Kulfi is known to be an Indian version of ice cream. However, there are
   many differences between ice cream and kulfi. The major difference lies
   in its texture and flavour.

   Usually, kulfi in Indian streets is served in the classic mould with a
   unique topping for creating kulfi falooda. Falooda is a type of ice
   cream float that’s prepared with rose syrup base, basil seeds and
   vermicelli noodles. Besides, there are many other varieties of kulfis
   like mango kulfi, badam kulfi, malai kulfi and more.

8. Pani Puri

   Pani Puri

   Pani puri is also known as gol gappa, gup chup and puchka in different
   parts of India. It is the most popular Indian street food, which not
   only Indians love but many foreigners as well.

   This dish consists of small puri shells that are made from unleavened
   dough, bread pieces and semolina mixture. These are hollowed out and
   generally stuffed with a mixture of potatoes and smashed chickpeas or
   bean sprouts (which are added very occasionally)

   These stuffed puri shells are further garnished with some different
   toppings like mint chutney, tamarind chutney, diced onions and green
   chilies. Finally, spicy “pani” (water) is added, which is usually
   flavoured with chaat masala and tamarind paste.

   You can easily find pani puri in any good Indian restaurant in
   different regions of the world. But after enjoying the crispy pani
   puris, don’t forget to enjoy leftover pani as a cocktail.

9. Pakora

   Pakora

   It is one of the easiest street foods for replicating at home. Pakora
   fritter is usually made by dipping different types of vegetable pieces
   in chickpea flour-based batter. It is further deep-fried until turned
   golden brown.

   The fried pakora is served with different types of sauces, such as mint
   chutney, tomato ketchup or tamarind chutney, depending on your
   preference.

   Some of the most common vegetables used to make pakora are eggplant,
   onions, cauliflower and green chilli peppers. Besides vegetable pakora,
   chicken and fish pakoras are also available for non-vegetarians.

10. Pav Bhaji

   Pav Bhaji

   Pav Bhai has originated from the Indian state Maharashtra. It is a
   blend of vegetables that are cooked on a flat griddle with tomato-based
   gravy. The entire dish is served with a buttered bread roll.

   This Indian dish seems to be a version of Sloppy Joe but Indian
   vegetarian-style. Even non-vegetarian style versions of pav bhaji are
   made with curried ground meat (or kheema). This type of pav bhaji is
   known as kheema pav.

Conclusion

   One of the best things about Indian street food is that it’s easily
   accessible in almost any region in India. With the popularity of Indian
   restaurants in the world, people living in foreign lands can also enjoy
   the taste of different flavourful and spicy Indian street food dishes.

   The reason why Indian street food must become popular across the globe
   is that it’s delicious, which is quite evident from the rush of crowds
   gathering to eat any Indian dish. Furthermore, Indian street food is
   affordable and hence, ideal for those travellers who are on a budget.
   Share this post:
     *
     *
     *
     *

Post navigation

   Previous

What is the Difference between a Dine-In Restaurant and Takeaway Restaurant?

   Mar 21 , 2020
   Difference between a Dine-In Restaurant and Takeaway Restaurant
   Next

What Makes Indian Pani Puri so Special?

   What Makes Indian Pani Puri so Special?
   Apr 15 , 2020

Releated Posts

   Top 5 Veg Starters You Must try for Your Next Party
   21 Oct

Top 5 Veg Starters You Must try for Your Next Party

   Starters!!! Every party is incomplete without starters. And candidly
   speaking, ...
   Read More

   Step by Step Procedure to Prepare Dal Makhni
   13 Oct

Step by Step Procedure to Prepare Dal Makhni

   Dal makhani is a classic and delectable Indian curry made with urad
   dal, kidney...
   Read More

   Recipe to make restaurant style Hara Bhara Kabab￼
   21 Sep

Recipe to make restaurant style Hara Bhara Kabab￼

   Loaded with green peas, potatoes, spinach, Hara Bhara Kabab or Spinach
   Peas Pat...
   Read More

   Dal Makhani Recipe | How to make Dal Makhani
   02 Sep

Dal Makhani Recipe | How to make Dal Makhani

   The most popular lentil dish originated in Punjab and Pakistan, Dal
   Makhani is ...
   Read More

Search

   ____________________ (BUTTON)

Latest Post

     *

Top 5 Dishes to Try this Winter from Our Restaurant
       December 13, 2022
     *
   coconut barfi

Top 5 Desserts & Sweets to Order This Christmas and New Year
       December 3, 2022
     *
   almond barfi health benefits

Top Health Benefits of Almond Barfi You Must Know
       November 19, 2022
     *
   aloo kulcha

Top 5 Healthy & Delicious Indian Breakfast to Try in Dubai
       November 12, 2022

Popular Posts

     * Differentiate Between Healthy and Unhealthy Foods How to
       Differentiate Between Healthy and Unhealthy Foods? 228.17 views per
       day | posted on July 21, 2020
     * 10 Amazing Health Benefits of Buttermilk (Chaas) 190.50 views per
       day | posted on August 26, 2020
     * Benefits of prawn Top 7 Health Benefits of Eating Prawns 47.33
       views per day | posted on July 17, 2021
     * Authentic Butter Chicken Recipe Authentic Butter Chicken Recipe –
       How to make Butter Chicken? 34.67 views per day | posted on August
       7, 2020
     * best indian restaurant in dubai 10 Best Indian Restaurants in Dubai
       Serving Authentic Indian Food 32.17 views per day | posted on
       August 4, 2021

Recent category

     * Best Indian Restaurants in Dubai
     * Breakfast Ideas
     * Chinese Food
     * Dine in Restaurant
     * Fine Dining
     * healthy food
     * Immunity Foods
     * Indian Desserts
     * Indian food
     * Indian Food Recipes
     * North Indian Food
     * online food delivery dubai
     * Outdoor Catering
     * Punjabi Food
     * Restaurants
     * Sweets
     * Uncategorized

INFORMATION

     * Home
     * About Us
     * Menu
     * Gallery
     * Testimonials
     * Locate Us
     * Blog

WORKING TIME

     * Breakfast : 6:00 AM to 11:00 AM
     * Open 24 X 7

   Order Online

OUR BRANCHES

   Dubai : Al Karama (Opposite Spinneys) Bangkok : Sukhumvit - Soi 22
   +971 4 3278622, +971 50 6780096
   amritsrrestaurant@gmail.com

WE ARE SOCIAL

     *
     *

   Locate Us

   Copyright © Amritsr 2019 - 2020. All Rights Reserved.
