   #Crush Mag Online » Feed Crush Mag Online » Comments Feed Crush Mag
   Online » The History of Street Food Comments Feed alternate alternate
   alternate

--
   Home > GENERAL NEWS

The History of Street Food

   Words: Robyn Paterson
--
   1 Shares

   Street food culture has been around for millenia. It’s been sustaining
   the masses in major cities since urbanisation drove many people to find
   work in city centres. To this day, it still serves that purpose with
   densely populated cities like Bangkok, Tokyo and Singapore being the
   street food capitals of the world. Versions of this street food exist
   all over the globe and they’re constantly changing and adapting to suit
   the needs of the people they serve. We explore the multicultural and
   diverse history of street food and how this trend takes shape in South
   Africa today.
   [street-food-4x6-1.jpg]
   [street-food-4x6-2.jpg]

What is Street Food?

   Street food is, well, food served on the street. It’s typically served
   from food trucks, carts, hatches or even tables in major city centres
   where foot traffic is high and constant. It serves people who are
--
   cities, where residential living space is dwindling, working class
   families often live in very small apartments that don’t have space for
   a kitchen. Street food is sometimes cheaper and more accessible
   compared to buying groceries, and has become common practice for people
   to rely on vendors for daily sustenance.

     Street food is the people’s food, originating from a need to feed
     the working class who couldn’t afford expensive cuisine or
     ingredients.

   In Singapore, street food is mostly served in ‘hawker centres’ which
   are large complexes, occupied by tables and dozens of street food
   vendor hatches. Hawker centres are known to have some of Singapore’s
   tastiest and cheapest food, and many people and families eat there
--
   Humanity.

     Street food is sometimes cheaper and more accessible compared to
     buying groceries, and has become common practice for people to rely
     on vendors for daily sustenance.

   These days, pretty much any type of meal can be served as street food.
   It’s no longer just meats and salads wrapped in bread, like shawarma,
   or food served on sticks. Some of the most popular street food dishes
   include aloo chaat from Northern India, bahn mi from Northern Vietnam,
   crepes from France, tacos from Mexico and mango sticky rice from
   Bangkok, to name the bare minimum. Street food has become so popular —
   there are several Netflix shows dedicated to documenting the history of
   street food and many more YouTube series highlighting everyday cooks
   who feed the hungry masses. These dishes have become ingrained in
   global food culture that often we aren’t even aware that the dish we
--
The People’s Food

   Street food is the people’s food, originating from a need to feed the
   working class who couldn’t afford expensive cuisine or ingredients.
   Nowadays, street food serves to preserve indigenous food cultures
   around the world and vendors can often serve as welcome reminders of
   ‘home’ for those living in foreign cities. In countries like South
   Africa, where there are many cultural groups living in diaspora, some
   of the most popular street food vendors are those making dishes that
   draw inspiration from their cultural heritage and upbringing in South
   Africa.
--

   The bunny chow, for example, is one of South Africa’s most popular
   street food dishes and it originated in Durban, during the 1940s. Many
   people were brought over from India as indentured labourers and they
   had to find a way of transporting their curries to and from work every
--
   kitchen).

   history of street food

A Window to the Past

   Learning about the history of street food culture is an amazing way to
   learn more about the history of a country and the people who have and
   are inhabiting it. Food is one of the few constants that have travelled
--
   and why, by understanding what cuisines were available to them.

   Want to try your hand at some street food recipes? Find our favourite
   street food inspired recipes here.
   Share
   Tweet
