History of Street Food and Interesting Facts

   Street Food is a type of prepared food sold on the streets and other
   public places. It is usually cheaper food than one sold in restaurants
   and it can be sold from a kiosk, portable food booth, food cart or food
--
   universal, type of food like hot dogs, burgers and such. Food and
   Agriculture Organization of the United Nations performed a study in
   2007 that showed that some 2.5 billion people in the world eat street
   food every day.
   [INS: :INS]

   People sold ready-to-eat food since the earliest civilizations. Ancient
   Greeks had street vendors that sold small fried fish while the Ancient
   Romans (or at least their lower classes) depended on street food for
   nutrition because they often didn’t had ovens in their homes to prepare
   food. In China (also ancient) street food was also intended for poor
   but the wealthy citizens would sometimes send their servants to buy
   them street food. Street vendors of 14th century Egypt sold lamb
   kebabs, rice and fritters. Even the Aztecs had vendors in their
   marketplaces that sold atolli (which is a gruel made from maize dough)
   and tamales with different kinds of already prepared meat. In North
   America, during the American Colonial period, street food that was sold
   was tripe, oysters, roasted corn ears, fruit and sweets. Europe of that
   time also knew about street food. Fried strips of potato were sold on
   the streets of Paris in 19th century and were the origin of french
   fries. Transylvanian vendors of the same time sold cookies, cream mixed
   with corn, and bacon. Londoners could by on the street tripe, pea soup,
   pea pods in butter, whelk, prawns and jellied eels. Today, street food
   is less local by type and at one place you van find cuisines
   characteristic for a country as well as food from other side of the
   world.
   Picture Of Hong Kong Street Food
     * In Indonesia, street food is sold from carts and bicycles.
     * Some cultures consider rude walking on the street while eating.
     * Multiple studies showed that contamination of food that street food
       vendors sell is at the same level as the contamination at
       restaurants.
     * Take-away pizza sold by street vendors in Italy is different than a
       pizza from pizzeria. It has a a thick base and is baked and sold in
       square or rectangular portions.
     * Polish vendors sell, among other street food, zapiekankas which are
       halved baguette or bread grilled with mushroom, cheese and some
       type of meet.
     * Mumbai, India has more than a half a million of street food
       vendors.
     * Taco is the most searched street food on the Internet.
     * Street vendors of Bangkok feed 40% of population of that city.
     * Street food vendors also sell soft drinks and even coffee.
     * The most common street food in United States are hot dogs.
     * Street vendors in Brazil sell cheese buns called chipá which are
       small, baked, cheese-flavored rolls.
     * Many places in the world have their variant of meat in bread as a
       popular street food.

   [INS: :INS]
