   In: Indian food By: Chef Negi 0 Comment 2752 Views

   Indian street food is popular across the globe for its diversity, spicy
   flavour and amazing taste. Some popular street dishes found in
   different cities of India are Aloo Tikki, Chaat, Pani Puri/Gol Gappe,
--

   You can visit any Indian restaurant in any part of the world to satisfy
   your craving for scrumptious Indian street food that’s likely to
   tantalise your tongue in no time.

What is Indian Street Food?

   Indian street food is often made of a medley of various seasoned
   ingredients, flavourful spices, fresh vegetables, and sweet & sour
   sauces.
--
   People in different parts of the world are also building an appetite
   for these foods. That’s why it’s not difficult to find a good Indian
   restaurant offering traditional Indian street food in various parts of
   the world.

--
   types of food lovers.

Is Indian Street Food Healthy?

   A mere mention of Indian street food can easily make mouths water just
   on hearing its name. However, many people still stay away from street
   food, as it falls into the category of junk food.

   However, the truth is that if you go to any good Indian restaurant, you
   get a variety of dishes to choose from. Many street food varieties are
   indeed devoid of significant health benefits and essential nutrients.

   But some Indian street food dishes may not necessarily include in the
   list of foods to avoid. Moreover, a wide selection of this food variety
   is quite healthy. This is because Indian street food variety available
   in restaurants is prepared with fresh ingredients and different spices
   that are known to be beneficial for health.

   We won’t say that Indian street food is healthy. But if prepared with
   freshly cooked vegetables and other health-benefiting spices in a
   sanitized restaurant kitchen, it can be quite a safe and healthy option
--
   While you can choose from a wide variety of Indian street foods, some
   dishes are so delicious that you cannot miss tasting them. Here is a
   list of the popular street food that must go global:

1. Aloo Tikki
--

   Bhelpuri is a blast of different flavours in your mouth. It is a West
   Indian street food item that combines salty, sweet and spicy flavours
   in the form of one delicious snack. It is also a vegan dish and
   traditionally served in a simple paper cone.
--
   Chaat

   It is another common Indian street food that’s mostly found in
   different regions of North India. However, chaat is a term used
   generally for South Asian street food. Many people in the world are
   fond of Indian Chaat.

--

   Pani puri is also known as gol gappa, gup chup and puchka in different
   parts of India. It is the most popular Indian street food, which not
   only Indians love but many foreigners as well.

--
Conclusion

   One of the best things about Indian street food is that it’s easily
   accessible in almost any region in India. With the popularity of Indian
   restaurants in the world, people living in foreign lands can also enjoy
   the taste of different flavourful and spicy Indian street food dishes.

   The reason why Indian street food must become popular across the globe
   is that it’s delicious, which is quite evident from the rush of crowds
   gathering to eat any Indian dish. Furthermore, Indian street food is
   affordable and hence, ideal for those travellers who are on a budget.
   Share this post:
