   #The Food Hog » 72 Indian street food dishes you absolutely have to try
   Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

--
     * Eat-ineraries
     * Travel Bites
     * Street Food
     * Cooking
          + Recipes
--
          + Privacy Policy

72 Indian street food dishes you absolutely have to try

   34 Comments
   72 Indian street food dishes you absolutely have to try 72 Indian
   street food dishes you absolutely have to try

   Street food is an essential part of experiencing a new destination and
   its diverse culture but in India, street food is something more than
   just that. Here, Indian street food is a way of life. Every region,
   state, and even city has its own delicacies that are adored by locals
   that will tell you that the street food in their town is better than
   anything else you might try in India. And they are all right.

   Most Indian street food dishes consist of simple, easy-to-make dishes
   but that doesn’t mean that they won’t explode releasing an array of
   rich, exotic flavors in your mouth and leave you craving for more.
--

   I spent a year in India and was fortunate enough to travel across the
   country and taste hundreds of different Indian street food dishes and
   in this article, I’ll share my 74 favorites. I know it’s very long, but
   if it was shorter it wouldn’t do any justice to the dishes that would
   get leaved out. So from the delicious cheeses of Kashmir to the Dosas
   of Tamil Nadu, here are the best street food dishes in India.
   Contents show
   1. Indian Street Food that’s popular around the country
   1.1. Panipuri
   1.2. Aloo Chaat
--
   1.5. Lassi
   1.6. Paan
   2. The best North Indian street food
   2.1. Chole Bhature
   2.2. Aloo Tikki
--
   2.16. Fire Paan
   2.17. Mutton Roll
   3. The best East Indian street food
   3.1. Kappa
   3.2. Singju
--
   3.17. Sanpiau
   3.18. Litti Chokha
   4. The best Central Indian street food
   4.1. Mutton Paya Soup
   4.2. Poha – Jalebi
   4.3. Faraa
   4.4. Ragi muddle
   5. The best West Indian street food
   5.1. Bombay Duck
   5.2. Dabeli
--
   5.13. Ragda Pattice
   5.14. Sabudana Vada
   6. The best South Indian street food
   6.1. Akki Roti
   6.2. Paddu
--
   6.12. Vellayappam
   6.13. Idli chili fry
   7. Tips for enjoying street food in India

Indian Street Food that’s popular around the country

Panipuri
--
   the name of the dish varies from state to state. In Uttar Pradesh, this
   dish is known as Golgappa, in West Bengal, Phuchka, in Central India,
   it’s called Gup Chup, etc. Another popular Indian street food that you
   can find in all parts of the country is…

--

   Across India.
   paan indian street food paan indian street food

   This simple snack is a local favorite not only across India but also in
--
   India.

   Now that we covered some of the street food dishes that are popular in
   all parts of India, let’s see which are some of the most popular street
   food snacks in different regions.

The best North Indian street food

Chole Bhature
--
   chola bature chola bature

   What started as a quick snack available on street food stalls across
   Uttar Pradesh has quickly taken India by storm and can now be found
   pretty much anywhere. Chole bhature is a combo of chana masala and hot
--
   aloo tikki aloo tikki

   When it comes to potato-based Indian street food, aloo tikki tops the
   charts. This delicious treat consists of bite-size potato pieces
   combined with tamarind, coriander, and chutney that will cause an
--
   Anywhere in the state of Himachal Pradesh, but for the best sidu, head
   to Manali.
   siddu Indian street food siddu Indian street food

   Sidu is an absolute favorite in Himachal Pradesh and if you try it,
--
   tunde kebab tunde kebab

   Kebabs are probably the most relished non-vegetarian street food dish
   in Uttar Pradesh and the tunday kebab is the best of the best. This
   dish was invented to satisfy the culinary cravings of a dying Mughal
--
   Mostly in North India, but for the best Nagori Halwa Bedmi Puri, head
   to Delhi.
   indian street food indian street food

   Nagori halwa bedmi puri actually consists of two different dishes that
--

   In Nasirabaad, Rajasthan.
   kachori Indian street food kachori Indian street food

   Even though kachoris originate from UP, they’re mega-popular in
--
   mirchi pakoda mirchi pakoda

   Mirchi Pakoda is a popular Rajasthani ‘fast Indian street food’ that is
   usually eaten as a side dish or a snack. The dish consists of a crispy,
   deep-fried coating stuffed with green chilies and potato or paneer.
--

   In Hindi, matar means beans and kulcha is a type of flatbread.
   Together, they constitute one of Delhi’s most popular street food
   delicacies. The combination of a hot, soft flatbread and a juicy gravy
   garnished with tomato slices, ginger, and juliennes is guaranteed to
--
   This sweet and sour dish is much more than just a popular Indian street
   food dish. You can see Bhalla papdi everywhere- on weddings, family
   functions, people’s homes, and of course on the street food stalls. The
   dish consists of a vada soaked in a thick mixture of spices, cashew
   nuts, and curd, topped with green and sweet tamarind chutney. You’ll
--
   originates from- the state of Punjab.

   No list of the best Indian street food can be complete without chicken
   tikka. This ultra-popular street consists of small pieces of grilled
   marinated chicken and it’s served either as a wrap, on a stick, or in a
--
   non-vegetarian dishes in the whole country.

   Chicken Tikka can be found at street food stalls but also in a lot of
   restaurants. If you’re looking to prepare it as a main course dish,
   check out our recipe.
--
   New Delhi.

   The fire paan at the street food stall at Connaught Place in New Delhi
   are one of the most popular street food attractions. It’s just like a
   regular paan flavored with a fruit/chocolate syrup set on fire and
   shoved in your mouth by the street food vendor. It certainly is one of
   the most unique street food experiences in India. Oh, and there’s also
   another frozen variation of this dish, perfect for Delhi’s ridiculously
   hot summers.
--
   releasing irresistible flavors in your mouth, look no further. You
   won’t find anything better than the mutton roll, one of the most
   popular mutton-based street food dishes in India. The roll is prepared
   on a large gril called Tawa and served with a side of vegetables and a
   lemon wedge. You can get mutton rolls in numerous different locations
--
   Lucknow.

The best East Indian street food

Kappa
--

   Anywhere in Meghalaya.
   kappa Indian street food kappa Indian street food

   Kappa is a traditional Meghalayan stew made of chicken entrails
--
   large deep-fried momo. The exterior is crunchy while the interior is
   gooey, filled with meat that melts as soon as it touches your mouth.
   This Sikimmese ‘street food bestseller’ is usually served with red hot
   chili sauce and a rutang soup (made from bony meats).

--

   Anywhere in Mizoram.
   Indian street food Indian street food

   In Mizoram, Arsa Bunchiar is a lot more than just street food. It’s one
   of the most basic local staples. The dish is basically an advanced
   chicken porridge enriched with spicy rice (it’s kind of similar to
--
   ghugni chaat recipe ghugni chaat recipe by Notoutofthebox CC by SA 4.0

   When it comes to street food in the eastern and northeastern parts of
   India, this list couldn’t be complete without ghugni chaat. This
   popular street food dish consists of dried white peas soaked in a
   delicious gravy and topped with some fresh vegetables and local herbs.
   The snack is 100% vegan and it’s one of the healthiest choices when it
   comes to street food.

Egg Rolls & Kathi Rolls
--
   Anywhere in India, but you’ll find the best momos in their ‘native
   country’, Sikkim.
   momos indian street food momos indian street food

   There’s a hard debate on the internet over where did momos originate
--
   Where to find it?

   Anywhere in India but the best chow mein street food stalls can be
   found in East and Northeast India.
   chow mein indian version chow mein indian version
--
   silkworm stir fry silkworm stir fry

   When Assamese street food is the topic, the local favorite, silkworm
   sti-fry simply can’t be forgotten. This is one of the most exotic
   tribal delicacies in Assam and as the name suggests, it consists of a
--
   By now, you’re probably starting to understand the northeastern cuisine
   that mostly relies on rice, bamboo shoots, and local herbs and spices
   which makes northeastern street food a lot more healthy than its
   ‘mainland’ counterparts. Sianpiau is another healthy street food from
   the far northeast. It’s a type of rice porridge spiced up with black
   pepper, fish sauce and coriander paste and topped with spring onions.
   You can get this popular street food in almost every corner of Mizoram.

Litti Chokha
--
   Anywhere in Bihar and in some other parts of India.

   Bihar might not be famous for its street food but the list of the best
   street food in East India wouldn’t be complete without Bihar’s simple
   yet delicious litt chokha. This spicy curry made from brinjal and
   mashed potato is served with litti and ghee and is enjoyed by locals
   for breakfast, dinner, and lunch.

The best Central Indian street food

Mutton Paya Soup
--

   Mutton Paya is one of the oldest and most delicious treats of Central
   India and arguably the tastiest street food dish in this part of the
   country. As the name suggests, this soup is made of lamb leg that’s
   tenderized to perfection and added in a bowl of flavorful local spices.
   The dish can be found anywhere in Central India, from street food
   stalls to restaurants.

--
   jalebi jalebi

   If you know a thing or two about street food you’ll inevitably notice
   that this dish combines two seemingly incompatible dishes. Namely, poha
   is a spicy flattened rice dish while jalebi is one of the most popular
--
   you have to be extremely open-minded to try, but if you ever do this,
   you’ll be in for a treat. The mix of sweet and salty makes this dish
   arguably the most contrasting street food India has to offer and
   actually, the primary breakfast choice of most people in Madhya
   Pradesh.
--
   as a full meal too.

The best West Indian street food

Bombay Duck
--
   meat in it. It’s made of small strips of deep-fried fish prepared in
   red curry and lightly battered with a crispy exterior while remaining
   soft on the inside. This is one of the best seafood street food dishes
   in India and an absolute must when visiting Mumbai.

--
   Mistry CC by SA 4.0

   Vada Pav is one of the most popular Indian street food dishes that can
   be found in different parts of the country but it’s not included in the
   ‘’Pan India section’’ because it would to injustice to the meaning vada
--
   Spicy, hot, and flavorful, Pav Bhaji is the pride of Mumbai. It
   consists of a thick, spicy vegetable gravy that first attacks your
   smell buds and lures you to the nearest street food stall before giving
   the final blow to your taste buds and a soft bread bun with a few lime
   drops to open your appetite even more. Initially, the dish originates
--
   by Ravi Talwar CC by SA 4.0

   The street food scene in Maharashtra and Gujarat couldn’t be complete
   without the vibrant colors and flavors of ragda pattice. The heart of
   the dish are the two potato cakes (pattice) served with a light stew of
--
   is served with yogurt and coconut chutney.

The best South Indian street food

Akki Roti
--
   This dish has a lot of different names like appe, paniyaram, and
   ponganalu but they all represent the same thing; a famous South Indian
   street food that tastes a lot like dosa but with a slight hint of
   sourness added in the mix. The batter for these delicious balls is made
   of rice and black lentils and is at its absolute best when combined
--

   Anywhere in Tamil Nadu.
   south indian street food south indian street food

   Kothu Parotta is a simple but flavorful dish that originates from Tamil
--
   vada paav vada paav

   Dal Vada is one of the most beloved street food snacks in South India
   and a lot of people even make it in their homes because the preparation
   is very simple. If you don’t like regular idlis (not for everyone),
--
   Around India, but needless to say, the best dosas can be found in South
   India.
   dosa Indian street food dosa Indian street food

   Dosa is arguably the most popular snack in South India, in fact, so
--
   dish filled with spicy potato and toppings of your own choice. Dosa is
   an integral part of South Indian cuisine and can be found anywhere from
   street food stalls to fancy restaurants.

Mirchi Bajji
--
   I always refer to Ram Ladoo as the South Indian version of panipuri but
   actually, this is one of the rare South Indian dishes that became one
   of Delhi’s most sought-after street food items. It’s basically a fried
   spicy pakoda served with flavorful moong dal and topped with chilies,
   onions, coriander leaves, and lime juice that offers a burst of
--
   Anywhere in Kerala.

   A list of the best South Indian street food wouldn’t be complete
   without mentioning Kerala’s most famous breakfast- vellayappam. This
   tasty snack is the closest Indian thing that comes to a pancake but the
--
   to make it and a lot of people in South India make this from the
   leftovers from yesterday’s lunch. But even if that’s the case, this
   famous street food delight is probably the world’s most tasty ‘leftover
   dish’.

Tips for enjoying street food in India

   Don’t be afraid of Indian street food. There’s always a risk of
   encountering an unhygienic street food stall and getting a bad stomach
   but then again, sometimes, this can happen in famous restaurants too.
   This leads me to my next point…

   Go where the locals are. If you see a long queue of locals in front of
   a street food stall, that’s the best indicator that this particular
   vendor serves not only food that’s safe to eat but also delicious.

   Be careful with street food drinks that aren’t hot. If the water didn’t
   boil, you can never be too sure how the water used to prepare that
   drink will impact your stomach. Just because locals are drinking it
--
   Now that you’re ready with all these tips, I’m sure you’ll have a great
   time discovering the taste of India through some of its most popular
   street food dishes. Did you try any of these? Which one is your
   favorite Indian street food? Let us know in the comments!

   If you liked this post, also check out our guide to street food in
   Europe.

   Like it? Pin it.
   72 TASTY INDIAN Street Food you must try (1) 72 TASTY INDIAN Street
   Food you must try (1)
   Spread the love
--
   Posted on Last updated: January 8, 2023

   Categories Street Food, Indian Cuisine & Recipes, Street Food
   Destinations, Travel Bites

