
     * What is
       street food?
     * street food:
       the story
     * Your
       opportunity
     * Become a
       street fooder


--
Street Food has existed ever since the first urban settlements were created.

   The most ancient evidence of food prepared and cooked on the street
   dates back to the dawn of civilisation, around ten thousand years ago.
   The ancient Greeks described the Egyptian custom, traditional in the
   port of Alexandria and subsequently adopted throughout Greece, of
   frying fish and selling it in the street. From Greece, the custom
   spread to the Roman world, enriched and transformed into numerous
   variations. In the excavations at Herculaneum and Pompei, the
   well-preserved remains of the typical “thermopolia” can be seen,
   forerunners of today’s food stalls. These were a kind of mini-kitchen
   facing directly onto the street, used for selling all types of cooked
   food, particularly stews of farro, beans or cicerchia.  At that time
   the less wealthy city dwellers lived in apartments, essentially blocks
   of flats, mostly without kitchens. So the populace ate in the street,
   buying their food from the nearest thermopolium, which supplied
   nourishing dishes affordable by all.

   And thus street food has evolved over the centuries in parallel with
   our civilisation, but discreetly, leaving very few traces considering
   its close links with the common people. But during the Middle Ages the
   big cities were bursting with stalls, huts and carts selling cheap
   ready-cooked food in the grubby streets of the seedier neighbourhoods.
   However, as is often the case, out of poverty comes the best of human
   ingenuity, and hence came the immortal recipes at the base of an entire
--
   workers during the industrial revolution. The crust was thrown away, as
   it would be soiled by coal or machine oil from their hands. British too
   is the veritable institution of fish and chips, sold on the street and
   wrapped in newspaper - a legacy of Sephardic Jewish refugees fleeing
   persecution during the late fifteenth and early sixteenth centuries.
--
“TERRITORY AND TRADITION” IT’S TALKED ABOUT, IT’S BOASTED ABOUT.

   This is perhaps the greatest misapprehension about street food: because
   it was born poor, from the  primary need to feed the populace cheaply,
   it has always been considered of little worth. However, particularly in
   these times of globalisation, street food is often the last bastion of
   a place’s traditions and identity. Consider the panino con la milza
   (bread with spleen) of Sicilian markets, or with lampredotto (tripe)
   sold at the last of the tripe stalls in Florence.  Pizza itself, the
   emblem of popular Italian cuisine, occupies the same role as the
   English pie, arising from the need to feed the poor in the streets. In
   this context, street food identifies and distinguishes territory and
   tradition, keeping alive one of the most important aspects of local
   culture, the eating habits of the people.
--
   sausage or roast pork, the Italian version of American hot dogs and
   hamburgers, which themselves descended from the traditions of poor
   immigrants from Hamburg and Frankfurt.  Today’s street food culture is
   taking a markedly different route, focusing on the traditional cultural
   aspect - sometimes a rediscovery - and investing in the quality of
--
   continually reinvent itself in the constantly evolving everyday urban
   jungle, while retaining is roots firmly in the history of a region. In
   a nutshell, street food has freed itself from prejudice and reclaimed
   its rightful place in the sun as an expression of culinary
   civilisation.
--
   52028 Terranuova B.ni (AR)
   Tel. +39 055919431
   info@streetfoody.it
   www.streetfoody.it
     * StreetFoody
     * Gourmet on the road
