   Feed EggHolic: Handy Guide To Indian Food & Restaurant In US | CANADA »
   Comments Feed EggHolic: Handy Guide To Indian Food & Restaurant In US |
   CANADA » Basic Differences Between Indian Street Food & Fast Food
   Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

--

   (BUTTON)
   Basic Differences Between Indian Street Food & Fast Food Basic
   Differences Between Indian Street Food & Fast Food

Basic Differences Between Indian Street Food & Fast Food

   large-image large-image
--
   The journey of buying cooked food for consumption began centuries ago
   and today, it is a normal practice. Well, we are here to discuss two
   types of bites available in the market. Street food and fast food. More
   specifically Indian street food and fast food because this blog is for
   everyone who thinks they are one and the same thing! No. There are many
   facets between them.
--

   Coming back to our topic, the fundamental difference between street
   food and fast food is the way one prepares it. Fast food is anything
   that’s made by bringing pre-cooked condiments together to make the
   final item. Whereas, street food is anything that’s cooked on the spot
   with raw ingredients. Read on to learn more about both of these food
   types.

Top 3 Differences Between Street Food & Fast Food

   Many believe that Street Food is the same as Fast Food. Well, you can
   say that because both of these edibles are made and served within
   moments. But they are poles apart, and here’s how.
--
   1) Composition

   Fast food has high quantities of refined sugar, complex fat, and
   carbohydrates. The combination of all this, though pleasing, can cause
   grave complications in the future. On the other hand, street food, more
   specifically, Indian street food, contains fresh veggies, beneficial
   spices, and the least amount of processed products. It is the ideal
   quick bite for people watching their weight.

   We are living in times where having a healthy immune system is of
   utmost importance. Fast food does provide momentary satisfaction, but
   street food provides contentment with medical perks. In the case of
   EggHolic, the menu is curated keeping all necessary parameters in mind.
   Every platter, be it egg, paneer, or chicken-based offers great taste.
--
   3) The Diversity Factor

   Finally, the range of platters available in the Street Food section is
   vastly more than the Fast Food section. Be it the US or Canada, busy
   roads are full of vendors offering the same type of edibles with a few
   twists. The bread, butter, and cheese with something to complement. But
   street food, again, Indian street food has varieties that will leave
   you surprised.

   India is known for its “university in diversity”, and so is visible in
   its street food options. The EggHolic Menu has platters from all parts
   of the country and we are adding more to the group as time passes.
   There’s no end to it! There is a perception of street food as a place
   where new foods can be explored with an authentic and homemade feel.
   Check out our menu to see all you can have at the Indian restaurant in
   Brampton, Canada. Here are a few best-sellers.

Indian Street Food In Brampton, CA To Not Miss Out On

   Indian Street Food In Brampton, CA To Not Miss Out On Indian Street
   Food In Brampton, CA To Not Miss Out On Indian Street Food In Brampton,
   CA To Not Miss Out On

--
   #3 Surti Gotalo

   A Gujarati Indian street food that’s famous for its satisfying taste
   and breathtaking aroma. It includes an egg-based gravy topped with two
   sunny side-ups. Accompany it with a chilled drink.
