Food

The rise and rise of the fast food industry

   Portion size to calorie intake, study sheds light on how fast food is
   causing various lifestyle diseases
     [plus.png]
--
   However, according to a study, by Boston University and Tufts
   University, comparison between the portion size and calorie intake from
   fast food, between 1986 and 2016, shows a drastic increase in all the
   parameters.

   However, there has been an increase in levels of calcium and iron,
   especially in desserts, according to the study that looked at fast food
   brands like, McDonald’s, Dairy Queen and KFC. On average per decade,
   the daily value of calcium increased by 3.9 per cent in desserts and
--

   Even though this rise could be good for treating anaemia and calcium
   deficiency, “people should not be consuming fast food to get more
   calcium and iron in their diet because of the high calories and sodium
   that come along with it,” Megan McCrory, lead author of the study, was
--

   It assumes importance as nearly 36 per cent of adults in the US consume
   fast food. “Between 1986 and 2016, the number of items offered on
   restaurant menus grew a staggering 226 per cent, an average of 22.9
   items per year. Along with the menu expansions, researchers found that
--
   as saying.

   Advent of fast food in India

   In India, increase in disposable income has in turn increased the
   frequency of dinning out. Big fast food chains like McDonald’s came to
   India in 1996, and soon other big outlets like Dominos, Pizza Hut, KFC,
   etc, followed suit, according to a study by AIIMS, Bangalore.

   According to another report, Indian fast food market is expected to
   grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 18 per cent by 2020 due
   to changing consumer behaviour and demography.

   This indicates that India is sailing in the same boat as US when it
   comes to fast food consumption. The latest findings should be taken as
   a benchmark and, we should work towards cutting down the fast food
   consumption in order to lead a healthy life.
   फूड से जुड़ी सभी खबरें हिंदी में पढ़ें।
--
     * Fast food chains progress on antibiotic policy, but action
       fragmented
     * 'Healthy’ fast food chains not living up to their claims
     * Conference on ‘slow food’ kicks off in Meghalaya
     * How marketers condition us to buy more junk food
--
       systematic review from 2013 to 2015 and a comparison with previous
       studies
     * Associations between fast food and physical activity environments
       and adiposity in mid-life: cross-sectional, observational evidence
       from UK Biobank
