   use for more information.

   If I were to describe Indian street food with just one word, it would
   be “colorful”. It’s an assault on the senses in the best ways possible.

--
   I’ve been a fan of Indian food for most of my adult life, but it wasn’t
   until my trip to India that I was exposed to the magical realm of
   Indian street food. There is so much interesting street food to be
   experienced in this country, many of which I had never seen anywhere
   else. From puchkas to kathi rolls to paan and jalebi, every turn led me
--

   I went to India looking for curry but what made the biggest impression
   was the street food. If you’re planning a trip to India and have a
   passion for street food, then listed in this article are 30 Indian
   street food dishes that you absolutely need to try.

INDIAN STREET FOOD QUICK LINKS

   If you’re planning a trip to India and want to learn more about the
   street food, then you may be interested in joining a food tour. Get
   Your Guide offers several street food and other food-related tours in
   India.

--
Save This on Pinterest!

   No time to read this article on Indian street foods? Click on the save
   button and pin it for later!
   [pinit_fg_en_rect_red_20.png] [svg%3E]
--
WHAT IS INDIAN STREET FOOD?

   In some countries like Japan, street food is limited. Not so in India.
   Indian street food is as diverse and plentiful as Indian cuisine. Every
   region has its own specialties with city vendors offering hundreds if
   not thousands of different options.

   The history of street food in India isn’t well documented, but it’s
   widely believed that its origins can be traced back to the time when
   the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan moved his capital from Agra to Delhi.
   Chaat, the most popular type of Indian street food, was first
   introduced to Old Delhi during that time. It became popular as a
   mid-day snack after cooks from Varanasi were invited to set up shop in
   Delhi by officials of the Mughal Dynasty.

   Today, street food has become an important part of Indian culture and
   has taken root in every part of the country. Its affordability makes it
   accessible to everyone. Aside from chaat, other popular varieties of
   Indian street food include kebabs, biryani, korma, and kulfi.

TIPS FOR EATING STREET FOOD IN INDIA
--
   Have you heard of “Delhi belly”? It’s the term for traveler’s diarrhea
   in india. It’s very much a real thing and something you should be
   concerned about when eating the street food in India. I was aware of it
   and tried my best not to catch it, but I still suffered a bout of
   diarrhea in Mumbai, probably from street vendor ice cream.

   As tempting as it is to try every Indian street food dish that catches
   your eye, it’s best to exercise caution as you don’t want a
   debilitating case of the runs ruining your trip to India. Here are a
   few pointers to remember when eating street food in India.
    1. Look for popular street food stalls.  The more customers a stall
       has, the better and safer it’s food is likely to be.
    2. Avoid dishes and drinks made with water.  Unfiltered water is the
--
       undistilled water like ice cubes, fresh fruit juices, and sauces.
       The same goes for produce washed in tap water.  If you can, find
       street food stalls that prepare their food using distilled water.
    3. Fried or grilled dishes are safer.  Heat kills bacteria so fried or
       grilled dishes are typically safer to eat.  The same goes for
--
    4. Avoid meat dishes.  Stay away from meat dishes if you can because
       you don’t know how long they’ve been sitting out.
    5. Go on a street food tour.  As a foreigner, it’s difficult to know
       for sure which street food stalls are safe.  For peace of mind, I
       highly recommend going on a street food tour in India.  A
       knowledgeable guide will take you to the city’s best and safest
       street food stalls so all you have to worry about is how much you
       can eat. Check out Get Your Guide for a list of food tours in
       Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, and other cities in India.
--
   I went on a food tour in Mumbai and the first place we went to was a
   stall selling nimbu masala soda. According to my guide, it was a great
   way of prepping our stomachs for the many street food dishes we were
   about to have.

--
   I had it in Delhi as well on a food tour, but towards the end of our
   tour, perhaps to aid in digestion.
   Masala lime soda at an Indian street food stall in Mumbai Masala lime
   soda at an Indian street food stall in Mumbai

2. Masala Chai
--
   a sign of hospitality. It’s a warming drink that can be enjoyed as is
   or sweetened with sugar, syrup, honey, or jaggery.
   Masala chai in a clay pot at an Indian street food stall in Kolkata
   Masala chai in a clay pot at an Indian street food stall in Kolkata

3. Lassi
--
   Pictured below are traditional lassis served in clay pots. After
   serving, the clay pots are broken and then recycled to create new pots.
   Lassi in clay pots at an Indian street food stall in Delhi Lassi in
   clay pots at an Indian street food stall in Delhi

   Can you guess what type of lassi this is? It’s a mug of sweet lassi
   flavored with pomegranate. Not quite super duper sexy strong but very
   good and highly addictive nonetheless.
   Pomegranate lassi at an Indian street food stall in Kolkata Pomegranate
   lassi at an Indian street food stall in Kolkata

4. Masala Chana Dal Chaat

   Chaat is the most popular type of Indian street food. The term refers
   to a family of savory Indian snacks, some of the most popular being
   samosas, kachori, dahi vadas, vada pav, and pav bhaji.
--
   To be honest, I find the concept of chaat confusing because the dishes
   can sometimes look so different. Based on its definition, it refers to
   Indian street foods made with a crisp starchy base like fried dough or
   crispy puffed rice. There are many different types of chaat made with a
   variety of additional ingredients, but the common denominator is the
--
   chopped onion, coriander, and lime. It reminded me of an Indian version
   of trail mix, but much more interesting and flavorful.
   Chana dal chaat in a small bag, one of the most common street foods in
   India Chana dal chaat in a small bag, one of the most common street
   foods in India

--
   chaat.

   Like the chana dal chaat, it’s a fun Indian street food snack that goes
   very well with beer. In fact, both of these stalls were located side by
   side in Kolkata, just outside a liquor store. Location is everything.
   Aloo chana chaat in a small bag, one of the most common street foods in
   India Aloo chana chaat in a small bag, one of the most common street
   foods in India

--
   It’s a crunchy and fun snack with an interesting mix of savory, sweet,
   sour, and spicy flavors.
   Bhel puri on paper, one of the most popular street foods in India Bhel
   puri on paper, one of the most popular street foods in India

   Photo by stockimagefactory.com via Depositphotos
--
   mustard oil which gives the snack its characteristic spicy and pungent
   flavor.
   Jhalmuri in a paper bag, one of the most popular street foods in
   Kolkata Jhalmuri in a paper bag, one of the most popular street foods
   in Kolkata

--
   Poha refers to flattened or beaten rice. It can be used to refer to
   both the ingredient and the Indian dishes made with it. It’s a popular
   Indian breakfast staple that’s also commonly sold as street food.

   To prepare, rice is parboiled and then flattened, resulting in crispy
--
   There are many Indian dishes made with poha but one of the most
   well-known is Indori poha with jalebi. It’s a beloved breakfast and
   street food dish from Indore made with poha, jalebi, sev, onions, and
   fennel seeds.
   Bowl of poha fried rice, a popular street food in India Bowl of poha
   fried rice, a popular street food in India

   Photo by stockimagefactory.com via Depositphotos
--
9. Pani Puri / Puchka / Gol Gappa

   Pani puri is one of the most interesting street foods I had in India.
   It refers to a popular type of chaat made with crispy hollow balls
   called puri. Preparations vary by region but they’re typically filled
--
   with water. For that reason, I recommend trying them on a food tour.
   Pani puri filled with onions and green chilies, one of the most popular
   street foods in India Pani puri filled with onions and green chilies,
   one of the most popular street foods in India

   Rupamdas75, CC BY-SA 4.0, via Wikimedia Commons
--
   sauce. Vadas are soft lentil fritters while dahi refers to yogurt, so
   the name dahi vadas literally means “fritters soaked in yogurt”. It’s a
   popular Indian festival dish that’s also commonly sold as street food.

   To prepare, urad lentils are soaked overnight and ground into a batter
--
   an interesting texture that’s similar to soft fluffy donuts.

   Like many of the dishes in this Indian street food guide, dahi vada is
   popular throughout the country where it goes by different names like
   dahi bhalla, dahi bade, thayir vadai, doi bora, and thairu vada.
   Dahi vadas in yogurt sauce at an Indian street food stall in Delhi Dahi
   vadas in yogurt sauce at an Indian street food stall in Delhi

11. Kanji Vada

   Kanji vada is a traditional Rajasthani street food dish made with vadas
   soaked in mustard-flavored fermented water called kanji or rai ka
   paani. The vadas are made from a combination of moong dal and urad dal
--
   using chakundar kanji. Chakundar kanji is a type of kanji made with
   fermented beetroot and carrots that give the liquid a rich red color.
   Kanji vada flavored with green chilies, a popular street food in
   Rajasthan Kanji vada flavored with green chilies, a popular street food
   in Rajasthan

--
   guide, this stall is known for serving some of the best kachori in
   Delhi.
   Small plate of kachori at an Indian street food stall in Delhi Small
   plate of kachori at an Indian street food stall in Delhi

13. Aloo Tikki
--

   Samosa is one of the most popular dishes in Indian cuisine. It’s widely
   available throughout India as street food or as an appetizer or snack
   at restaurants, cafes, and gatherings.

--
   cuisine now. It’s also popular in other parts of South Asia, the Middle
   East, Southeast Asia, Western Asia, the Mediterranean, and Africa.
   Plate of samosas, one of the most famous street food dishes in India
   Plate of samosas, one of the most famous street food dishes in India

   “Samosa” by Avinash Bhat, used under CC BY-SA 2.0 / Processed in
--
   potato masala and served with different sides like chutney and sambar
   (lentil-based vegetable curry).
   Masala dosa in Mumbai, one of the most famous South Indian street food
   dishes Masala dosa in Mumbai, one of the most famous South Indian
   street food dishes

17. Paratha
--
   typically consumed as a side dish to curries, paratha is often enjoyed
   as a standalone dish.
   Paratha thali, one of the most popular street food dishes in India
   Paratha thali, one of the most popular street food dishes in India

18. Pav Bhaji

   Pav bhaji was one of my favorite street foods in India. It’s a simple
   dish but it’s comforting and absolutely delicious.

--
   refers to vegetables or vegetable-based dishes.

   Together with vada pav, pav bhaji is one of the most popular street
   foods in Mumbai. I suggest trying it at Chowpatty or Juhu Beach. It’s
   the perfect dish to snack on while enjoying the view of the ocean.
   Phav bhaji, one of the best street food dishes from Mumbai Phav bhaji,
   one of the best street food dishes from Mumbai

19. Bombay Sandwich

   As you can probably guess from the name, the Bombay sandwich is a
   popular street food sandwich in Mumbai. It’s a vegetarian sandwich made
   with beetroot, boiled potatoes, onions, tomatoes, bell peppers,
   cucumbers, chaat masala, and mint chutney sandwiched between buttered
--
   a metal clamp and grilling it over charcoal. It was then cut into
   portions and drizzled with ketchup before serving. Delicious!
   Bombay sandwich, one of the most popular street food dishes in Mumbai
   Bombay sandwich, one of the most popular street food dishes in Mumbai

20. Vada Pav

   Like pav bhaji, vada pav is one of the most popular street foods in
   Mumbai. You can think of it as an Indian vegetarian slider made with
   deep-fried mashed potato fritters (batata vada) served in a soft bread
--
   made with smaller potato fritters for more texture and crunch.
   Vada pav with green chilies and garlic chutney, one of the most
   well-known street food dishes in Mumbai Vada pav with green chilies and
   garlic chutney, one of the most well-known street food dishes in Mumbai

21. Dabeli
--
   joy to the taste buds. Be sure to try their egg rolls and mutton rolls
   as well.
   Chicken tikka kathi roll at a street food stall in Kolkata Chicken
   tikka kathi roll at a street food stall in Kolkata

23. Kebab
--
   facilitate the evaporation of water and further thickens the yogurt. It
   also allows for the ideal temperature for the growth of the culture.
   Mishti Doi, a popular Bengali street food dessert Mishti Doi, a popular
   Bengali street food dessert

26. Jalebi

   Jalebi is one of the most common Indian street food desserts. It’s a
   hugely popular snack that’s enjoyed in many parts of India and across
   South Asia, the Middle East, and North Africa.
--
   eaten on its own as a snack or for dessert but it can be paired with
   savory dishes as well. In Indore, it’s commonly eaten with poha for
   breakfast or as a street food dish.
   Jalebi, one of the most iconic street foods in India Jalebi, one of the
   most iconic street foods in India

27. Doodhpak
--
   dessert with great texture from the nuts and just the right amount of
   sweetness.
   Doodhpak, a street food dessert from Gujarat Doodhpak, a street food
   dessert from Gujarat

--
   kulfi, a popular ice cream in India

   I went on a street food tour in Delhi and our last stop was this iconic
   stall famous for their stuffed kulfi. It refers to kulfi made from
   fruit pulp which is then stuffed back into the fruit before being
--
   served to me. You can choose from four stuffed kulfi flavors – mango,
   apple, orange, and pomegranate. I wish I could have tried all four.
   Different types of kulfi from a street food stall in Delhi Different
   types of kulfi from a street food stall in Delhi

29. Sancha Ice Cream
--

   This heritage sancha ice cream shop was the last stop on our Mumbai
   street food tour. We got two flavors – Alphonso mango and custard
   apple. Both were delicious. Unlike kulfi which is frozen, sancha ice
   cream is closer in consistency to a creamy western-style ice cream.
--
   measures to ban or limit the sale of paan, and to issue fines for
   spitting out paan juice in public.
   Paan in Mumbai, one of the most interesting street foods in India Paan
   in Mumbai, one of the most interesting street foods in India

POPULAR CITIES FOR STREET FOOD IN INDIA
--
   Street food is popular all throughout India but some cities are better
   known for it than others. Listed below are five of the most popular
   cities for street food in India.

1. Delhi

   It’s no surprise that Delhi tops this list considering that it may
   indeed be the city that first popularized street food in India. Just
   spend a day exploring the labyrinthine alleyways of Chandni Chowk and
   you’ll be mesmerized by its dizzying array of street food!

   I went on a street food tour in Old Delhi and got to experience some of
   the city’s tastiest examples of jalebi, pani puri, paratha, kachori,
   kulfi, and more. Delhi has a reputation for having some of the best
   food in India and its street food is no exception.

2. Kolkata

   Like Delhi, Kolkata is often cited for being one of the best cities for
   street food in India. It’s the birthplace of the kathi roll and home to
   many delicious street food dishes like jhalmuri, puchkas, Mughlai
   parathas, and the Kolkata fish fry.

   I went on a food tour in Kolkata and got to experience a plethora of
   street food dishes along with other tasty examples of Bengali cuisine.
   My guide even took me to a few heritage stalls that have been open for
   well over a hundred years!
--
   the food. Surrounded by the Arabian Sea, it’s home to fantastic seafood
   dishes like garlic butter crab and Bombay duck, not to mention a wealth
   of tasty street foods like vada pav, pav bhaji, bhel puri, aloo tikki,
   dosas, and the Bombay sandwich.

--
   food. It’s known for its Nawabi and Awadhi dishes, none more beloved
   perhaps than the tunde ke kabab, which is a type of kebab made with
   finely minced buffalo meat. Other popular street foods in Lucknow
   include chaat, aloo tikki, lassi, and kulfi.

--
   Indore is often called the food capital of central India, and with good
   reason. It’s famous for its Indori poha with jalebi and other tasty
   street food dishes like dahi vadas, bhutte ka kees, khatta samosas, and
   kulfi falooda.

FINAL THOUGHTS ON INDIAN STREET FOOD

   30 street food dishes may seem like a lot in many countries but not in
   India. In this vast country where street food is life, this list of 30
   is just the very tip of the iceberg. But I do hope it gives you enough
   to go on and gets you even more excited to experience the street food
   in India.

   As with all our food guides, this Indian street food guide is a
   perennial work-in-progress that will continue to grow and get better
   after each return visit to India. If you know Indian street food well
   and have any suggestions for us, then do let us know in the comments
   below. We love getting suggestions from locals and learning about new
--

   Thanks for reading and have an amazing (and safe) time exploring the
   street food in India!

Disclosure

   Some of the links in this Indian street food guide are affiliate links.
   We’ll get a small commission if you make a purchase at no added cost to
   you. As always, we only recommend products and services that we use
