Follow us on

   NewsBLOGSIndiaWhy India's street food vendors are the essence of the
   country's food Industry

INDIA

Why India’s street food vendors are the essence of the country’s food
Industry

--
   to music or walks his dog. LESS ... MORE

   I was watching a documentary series on street food. The series had
   various episodes titled after cities in Asia, such as Bangkok, New
   Delhi, Seoul, etc. The episode uncovering New Delhi’s street food
   devotees was my favorite choice, considering my Indian roots. It spoke
   about the backgrounds of the different street vendors serving various
   street dishes. I was taken on a culinary journey across different
   dishes such as the Nihari stew, the Seekh Kebabs, Chaat, and Chole
   Batura. Consequently, the show celebrated the success and continuity of
   the vendors’ lives, businesses, and services to Delhi’s people.
   Ultimately, the documentary thoughtfully represented the enthusiasm and
   success of Indian street food businesses. Essentially, it is important
   to understand that the Indian street food business is an essence of
   flavorsome when it comes to shaping the Indian food market.


   According to cultural Historian Rana Safvi, the concept surrounding
   street food consists of ancient imported roots from the Tomars, the
   Rajputs, the British, and the Mughal empire. Hence, Safvi says that
   when people indulge in infamous street dishes such as the Nihari, or
   the Seekh Kebab, they are also tasting history in the present day.
   Furthermore, Safvi also states that the street food business serves all
   kinds of people – from the working-class category to students – to the
   rich folk – to any common man. Consequently, according to the Program
   Head of the National Association of Street Vendors, Sangeeta Singh,
   “many people don’t seem to have kitchens, and are totally dependent on
   street food for their meals; so if someone has to taste real food,
   authentic food, it has to be street food.”

   Over the years, the street food scene in India has grown with
   popularity. According to a food website, the street food industry has
   grown with prominence because of its high demand in the food market.
   Another food website states that its market share is also expanding
--
   Consequently, the website also states that the industry’s business
   models have also flourished because of the business’s low investment
   requirement and high cost-effectiveness. Hence, street vendors have
   strived and are striving to prepare quality food which will entice
   demanding taste buds at a lower cost.


   However, some people in India also avoid street food stalls in concern
   of hygiene standards followed by vendors. They feel fearful of
   sanitation, quality, and surroundings. However, the report states that
   street food stalls usually serve a preponderance of the population in a
   city. Moreover, street food vendors across India suffer from
   displacement on a daily basis. They can also suffer from legal
   sanctions and have depleted constitutional recognition. Additionally,
   according to Anne Dahmen, a German research scholar and coordinator for
   the sustainable Hyderabad Project (SHP), eviction possibilities are
   high for street vendors because of a lack of awareness about the
   standard protocols and requirements in following the Food Safety and
   Standards Act 2006. However, Anne Dahmen also states that the
   perception and overall situation of street food surrounding uncertainty
   can be improved by the government by managing the sector better, i.e.,
   by regulating the process to be more participatory.

   This industry has grown and preserved economies in the country.
   According to a media report, if street food stalls fold permanently,
   then the high cost to be beared by a customer and effort to find food
   which has similar value would be difficult. Furthermore, according to
   Anne Dahmen, if proper training based on legalities, hygiene, and
   preparation is administered by different authorities through various
   schemes to various street vendors across India, then the street food
   industry can be pillars of sustenance for societies. For instance, the
   Hindu also reports that under a training program carried out by the SHP
   and Dr. Reddy’s foundation, which trained several street vendors, M.
   Vijay Kumar – one of the training program’s trainees saw his sales
   increase from Rs. 800 to Rs. 1000 a day after executing new methods.

   Conclusively, though some people in India avoid street food because of
   hygiene purposes, it’s role in sustaining and shaping the Indian food
   economy remains unparalleled. Additionally, though some of the street
   vendors are at risk of eviction on a daily basis, they are also the
   lifeblood of freshness and taste in taste buds across different cities
   in India. Consequently, with the right schemes of training programs
   provided by the government to street vendors, there can be a
   possibility for crucial advancement in institutional awareness
   concerning culinary legalities, acts, and hygiene practices.
   Ultimately, it is essential to understand that the Indian food economy
   is shaped by the people who serve food on the streets of cities, and
   with changes in perceptions of some citizens and recognition given by
   the government towards these people, it can become more recognizable.
--
       attention to the A

   NewsBLOGSIndiaWhy India's street food vendors are the essence of the
   country's food Industry
   logo logo
