   #Local Press » Feed Local Press » Comments Feed Local Press » 20
   benefits or advantages of eating street food Comments Feed alternate
   alternate alternate

--
   05 NOV

20 benefits or advantages of eating street food

Street food is cheap, quick to prepare and of different varieties, but that
is not the only benefit of having street food around or eating it. There are
many small aspects of street food that can benefit in one way or another.
Street food brings together people of different cultures and races, all
immersed in the joy of a variety of rich culture of street food.

   There are more benefits and advantages of eating street food than you
   can imagine. (Photo by Shane Rounce on Unsplash).

Following are the 20 benefits or advantages of eating street food

   1. Street food is the food of the masses

   2. Street food brings together different cultures and races

   3. Street Food lets you taste authentic global cuisines

   4. Street food consumption helps support local families & individuals

   5. Street food binds local communities together

   6. Street food provides many indirect job options

   7. Street food drives tourism across the world

   8. Street food is a boon for office goers, especially bachelors

   9. Street food carts are boons for young lovers

   10. Street food provides breakfast for many homes

   11. Street food is a cheap and safe option for hitchhikers

   12. Street food is a mental booster for many people

   13. Street food is better than modern junk food

   14. Street food hubs are happening venues of sorts

   15. Street food is cheap food and pretty affordable

   16. Street food has a variety to choose from

   17. Street food hubs and corners are social network areas

   18. Most street food carts and stalls sell good quality food

   19. Street food carts are open to your inspection

   20. Different seasons brings back the joy of different Street food

1. Street food is the food of the masses.

   Let us accept it, street food is the food of the masses. The common man
   (and woman) could never survive if there were no street food. Everyone
   loves it and can relish it irrespective of their financial status. Rich
   or poor, people just can’t get enough of it. Every day hundreds of
   thousands of food lovers converge street food markets and hubs to enjoy
   their share heavenly food on earth, and that too at affordable prices.

   Street food is the identity of the masses as they have grown up eating
   and have many cherished memories associated with it.

   There is no reservation when it comes to eating street food and all you
   need to have a fair share of it is a little bit of money and the hunger
   to eat it.

2. Street food brings together different cultures and races

   Street Food is one of the universal languages that brings together
   people of different cultures and races sharing and bonding over the
   richness of their food. It is through the mouth that the goodness of
   street food makes friends out of different cultures. The sharing of
   food that holds dear to people from different religions, caste and
   creeds further strengthens the bond between them as they begin to
   cherish their unity in diversity.

   Street food opens up doors for people of all cultures and races to
   share and enjoy the goodness of food and in doing so, pass on the
   message that there is nothing wrong to be different because when it
--

   Every culture cherishes it’s food and wants to share the joy it brings
   with everyone. At the same time, street food culture allows different
   culture to merge together into a unique assortment of food – one that
   captivates everyone!

   The global street food culture passes the message that we are bound
   together by one of the best things in life – food!

3. Street Food lets you taste authentic global cuisines

   Many street food vendors are cooks dishing out authentic delicacies
   from their regions and serve humble versions of authentic global
   cuisines that are sold exclusively at pricey restaurants and are
--
   rich flavours.

   However authentic street food cuisines are food items in their original
   and raw forms and hence cannot taste like their modified versions. So
   don’t be disappointed if you don’t find the buttered versions. Enjoy
   the originality of the foods in the simplicity they were discovered in.

   Street food is authentic in a lot of ways, one being the originality it
   is cooked with and the person cooking it without the thought of
   competing with others.

4. Street food consumption helps support local families & individuals

   20 benefits or advantages of eating street food Many local families
   across the world earn their living by selling street food. (Photo by
   Matthieu Joannon on Unsplash).

   Many street food carts and stalls are run by local people who have no
   other form of employment or are not earning enough from their small
   jobs. There are many struggle stories in most such businesses.

   By eating at a street food cart or stall, you not just satisfy your
   hunger and save money, but also help many families earn a living and
   make ends meet.

   Street food is a two-way relationship where you benefit by getting
   cheap and good food on your plate and in return, help put food on the
   plates of many such people who run street food businesses.

   So you see, eating at a street food cart is also some form of social
   work on a local level.

5. Street food binds local communities together

   It is a fact that street food around the world has brought together
   local communities who share more than just common food but also their
   fears, joys, sadness, triumphs, concerns and much more.

   In many places around the world, local communities and their daily
   lives have been affected positively by their street food cultures that
   bring together people in unison.

--
   eating together as a family.

   In other words, street food brings together strangers and makes them
   part of a bigger family!

6. Street food provides many indirect job opportunities

   20 benefits or advantages of eating street food Many food bloggers and
   vloggers earn a living out of street food blogs and vlogs. (Photo by
   Markus Winkler on Unsplash).

   Street food across the world provides work options to may food
   bloggers, vloggers and photographers who earn a living out of it. There
   is a thriving community of such people who depend on street food for
   work.

   You must have seen many street food videos yourself or read some
   articles in a food blog.

   Street food bloggers and vloggers on the other hand bring in more
   business for global street food markets in the form of tourists who are
   inspired by their food articles and videos.

--
   that keep millions of food lovers around the world inspired and hungry.

7. Street food drives tourism across the world

   Global tourism is driven by the street food culture to a huge extent
   and there is no denying it. There is an increasing number of global
   travellers who have been travelling only to be able to eat the variety
   of street food that they read about in their favourite food blogs or
   watch on their many popular Youtube food channels.

   The fact is, that the global street food scenario has helped many
   countries draw in more and more tourists from around the world every
   year. People have been eating street food more than ever before.

   Street food tourism is a major part of all global travel now and hence
   it has been supporting and boosting the economy of many small and big
   countries. As a matter of fact there are many countries and cities
   around the world that depend extensively on tourism – street food is a
   boon for all of them.

8. Street food is a boon for office goers, especially bachelors

   20 benefits or advantages of eating street food Street food provides
   many office goers with their daily breakfast and lunch. (Photo by Shane
   Rounce on Unsplash).

   Street food helps hundreds of thousands of office goers who would
   otherwise miss breakfast or even lunch owing to time issues or not
   having someone to cook for them.

   Street food carts allow office goers to grab a quick bite in the
   morning or a wholesome plate of tasty and affordable lunch or dinner.

   Many bachelors depend on street food besides tiffin services for not
   just breakfast but also lunch and dinner.

--
   goes to waste and so does the money spent on buying it.

   Street food, on the other hand, provides office goers and bachelors the
   flexibility to eat as and when required and save money too.

9. Street food carts are boons for young lovers

   Street food markets and hubs provide young lovers cheap and tasty food
   options to relish with their dates. There is no need to explain why
   young lovers or couples would depend on street food for anything from a
   small snack to lunch or dinner dates too.

--
   and that too at throwaway prices.

   Many love stories have been born and grown at street food carts and
   continue to do so.

10. Street food provides breakfast to many homes

   It would surprise you to know that many households depend on street
--

   It is just not possible for such people to prepare breakfast and hence
   street food stalls provide them with healthy, homely and cheaply priced
   food options.

   From light breakfasts like idli, vada, poha and upama to some heavy and
   spicy food items like dosa chhole-bhature, vada-pav, samosa,
   gobi-manchurian etc. street food has everything to offer to the hungry.

   It is a fact that a majority of the families with working individuals,
   depend on street food carts and stalls for their daily breakfasts.

11. Street food is a cheap and safe food option for hitchhikers

   Hundreds of thousands of people hitchhike every day around the world
--
   is safe.

   Street food provides a variety of cheap, safe and delicious food to
   hitchhikers and that is why they depend heavily on street food carts
   and stalls.

--
   expensive restaurants or hotels, irrespective of their financial
   standings. They want to eat local and authentic and what else than
   street food to fulfil their wish? Also, the availability of popular
   street food carts ensure that they are eating healthy food and will not
   fall sick while touring.

   Also read: Pros and Cons of Street Food

12. Street food is a mental booster for many people

   Street food affects people’s minds a whole lot of positive ways. The
   taste, smell and feeling of something particular or everything cooked
   on the street have been said to boost the morale of many who throng the
   streets daily, livening them up and even warding off depression.

   Street food can fill you up with positive feelings and the assurance of
   a better time ahead. And it does not limit itself to those who eat it
   street food on a day to day basis but even those who simply walk by
   such food carts experiencing the goodness of street food from a
   distance.

--
   of the food cooked at home by their mothers, sisters of wives, can make
   them feel at home. Though the still miss being at home, the smell and
   taste of street food resembling some part of the food prepared at their
   homes can be very assuring at times.

   Frankly, street food provides nothing less than a fair dose of
   aromatherapy, to promote health and well-being. Many people, including
   us, are firm believers that the smell of certain food can help improve
   the health of the body, mind, and spirit of people. Street food tends
   to latch itself to emotions and it is a known fact that emotions
   control the mental health of people and hence it controls the physical
   health too.

13. Street food is better than modern junk food

   Many think that street food is junk food but it is not. As a matter of
   fact, fast food is the real junk food in every sense. You see, fast
   food has been proved to be more harmful than anything that gets cooked
   and sold on the streets.

   Street food is food cooked on the streets in different authentic ways
   but fast food or junk food is food that has many processed food
   ingredients that cause long term health issues, it eaten daily.

   It is not the case with street food and on the contrary it can be eaten
   regularly as it has all the goodness that healthy staple diets provide.
   Why? Well because it is homely food simply cooked or served on the
--

   Now many would debate but look at the growth in obesity and other
   ailments in people who eat fast food on a day to day in many developed
   countries.

--
   food before eating out.

14. Street food hubs are happening venues of sorts

   Most street food markets or hubs build a very vibrant atmosphere around
   them. There is an increased amount of liveliness and positive vibes at
   such places. Depending on the local demography, there could be music,
--
   around them and a lot more.

   Street food hubs are nothing less than entertaining hubs costing you
   nothing extra at all. So while you are eating different varieties of
   street food, you get to see people going about with their daily lives
   or discussing their problems and solutions. You get to partake in the
   triumphs of many, learn about different things that can add value to
   your lives or simply enjoy it all.

15. Street food is cheap food and pretty affordable

   Street food is cheap and easily affordable and you must know it. Every
   article ever written about street food emphasises on the fact that it
   is cheap. Even we have said that a couple of times here and there.

   The fact is, what makes street food more alluring is that it is cheap
   and can be afforded by just about everyone. You don’t need to be filthy
   rich to eat street food. As a matter of fact even those who are still
   searching for jobs, enjoy street food without any constraints.

   But don’t let the cheap prices of street food fool you. The low prices
   don’t mean that the quality of food is always questionable. Yes, every
   now and then, there comes news about some street food vendor messing up
   the trust of his patrons owing to sheer neglect and unconcern. But
   trust us such incidents are not rare even in a grade restaurants. It’s
   just you don’t get to hear it more often.

   Anyway, back to the point – street food allows you to eat good and
   tasty food without burning a hole in your pocket.

16. Street food has a variety to choose from

   Street food has a lot of variety to choose from and you can be spoiled
   for choice. Walk around any street food market or hub and you will see
   mouth-watering dishes lined up for your perusal.

   There is always a lot to choose from in street food owing to the fact
   that there are people from diverse cultures selling popular food from
   their regions. So you have different food items at your service.

   There is so much street food in the world to eat that it would take
   years if you were to eat just one dish each day.

   Also, for hoggish eaters, street food allows then to eat as many
   varieties of food as they can eat owing to their cheap prices. So they
   don’t have to think much about money while eating but rather their
   capacity to eat.

17. Street food hubs and corners are social network areas

   20 benefits or advantages of eating street food Street food markets or
   hubs help grow a healthy social network of like-minded people. (Photo
   by Peter Hall on Unsplash).

   Street food corners or hubs are good for socializing and networking
   with like-minded individuals as they all converge together for one
   common cause – food!
--
   healthy and fruitful discussions.

   Street food brings people of different mind sets and thinking and helps
   them with dissemination of knowledge and much more.

   There is a growing network of food lovers across the world who converge
   at street food festivals where they not only enjoy or talk about food,
   but also discuss about how other major issues of the world can be
   solved.

18. Most street food carts and stalls sell good quality food

   Street food carts are majorly run by owners who cook the food
   themselves. So is street food of good quality? Yes, it is. As a matter
   of fact street food is mostly good in quality as the owners aim to get
   loyal customers who last a long time.

   So most of the times you get street food as good as home-cooked food.
   You get to eat food that reminds you of food cooked at home because it
   is being prepared by people like us in a manner we all tend to cook at
   home.

   To be precise, most of the street food vendors cook the same food for
   both business and home. So they eat the same food that they sell at
   their food carts. That assures that the food is of good quality in
   every sense as they eat it themselves.

   There can be exceptions at times where some irresponsible street food
   vendors cut corners to earn extra profits. However, they are easy to
   detect and should be avoided at all costs.

   You can refer to this article to ensure that you are eating at the
   right street food cart or stall: Street food: 8 Things to take care of

19. Street food carts are open to your inspection

   20 benefits or advantages of eating street food Street food carts have
   open kitchens to be inspected by those who wish to ceck before eating.
   (Photo by Clem Onojeghuo on Unsplash).

   You can see what is being cooked and what ingredient is being used at a
   street food carts. It is a default state of street food markets as they
   have a small portable set-up which is open to your scrutiny. Besides,
   they have nothing to hide – they simply cook on the streets and re not
--
   of cooking.

   Street food carts allow you to see the quality of ingredients being
   used, the way food is being handled and the overall cleanliness of the
   place you are about to eat at.
--
   kitchen. It has become impossible in the ongoing pandemic situation.

   There is no such issue at street food markets – pandemic or not, you
   get to see the entire process in full view.

   So, you see, street food markets enable you to decide whether or not to
   eat at a street food cart by taking into account all the facts that are
   right in front of you all the time.

20. Different seasons brings back the joy of different Street food

   Every season brings back the joy of eating certain street food items.
   There are some foods that go well with rainy seasons, some that suit
   the winters and others that are meant to be eaten during the summers.
   So there is always a season of street food that thrills all street food
   lovers.

   So you see, street food is not just cheap but healthy and with a lot of
   benefits we never think about. You could just be having a quick snack
   at a street food cart but while doing do, also help support a family,
   bond with the community or simply getting inspired.

   Street food is what fuels the inspirations of many around the world
   every day!
   List of benefits or advantages of eating street food

   For more food related articles click on LocalPress/Food
--
   05 NOV

Pros and Cons of Street Food

   Photo-by-Shane-Rounce-on-Unsplash-1 Street food, especially Indian
   street food, has it’s own pros and cons and whether or not it...

   Food Read More
--
   19 APR

Street food items Navi Mumbai youngsters miss during the coronavirus lockdown

   From Pani Puri, Vada Pav, Manchurian to Tandoori chicken, city
