     * Submission Guidelines

   Differences in perceptions and fast food eating behaviours between
   Indians living in high- and low-income neighbourhoods of Chandigarh,
   India
--
     * Published: 07 January 2013

Differences in perceptions and fast food eating behaviours between Indians
living in high- and low-income neighbourhoods of Chandigarh, India

--
Background

   Increased density of fast food restaurants is associated with increased
   prevalence of obesity in developed countries. However, less is known
   about this relationship in developing countries undergoing rapid
   urbanization and how differences in neighbourhood income affect the
   patronage of fast food outlets. The purpose of the study is to explore
   the differences in fast food preferences, perceptions, and patronage
   between Indians living in high- and low-income neighbourhoods.

--
   This cross-sectional study recruited 204 men and women (35 to 65 years
   in age) from high- and low-income neighbourhoods who completed a
   questionnaire on fast food consumption. The questionnaire asked
   participants to define fast food and to provide reasons for and
   frequency of visits to fast food restaurants. The differences were
   analyzed using Chi square and t-tests for categorical and continuous
   variables, respectively.
--

   Participants from a high-income neighbourhood were more likely to
   perceive Western -style fast food as fast food, while people from the
   low-income neighbourhood were more likely to identify food sold by
   street vendors as fast food (p <0.001). Furthermore, compared to
   participants from the high-income neighbourhood, people from the
   low-income neighbourhood were more likely to report buying food from
   street vendors while less likely to dine out at both fast food and
   non-fast food restaurants (p<0.001). Although the high-income
   neighbourhood group was more likely to report enjoying eating at fast
   food restaurants than their low-income neighbourhood counterparts,
--
Conclusions

   Overall, consumption of fast food was low. People from a high-income
   neighbourhood dined out more frequently and were more likely to
   perceive Western-style food as fast food compared to their counterparts
   from the low-income neighbourhood.

--
Background

   In the past few decades, fast food (food prepared in a restaurant with
   limited service staff and from which the majority of meals are consumed
   off premises) has been implicated as one of the contributors to
--
   sodium, but low in dietary fibre, calcium, and iron [5]. Prospective
   data from Western countries have shown that there is a positive
   association between frequency of fast food restaurant use and weight
   gain [4, 6, 7]. Hence, as Western fast food companies are expanding in
   developing countries such as India [8], there is a considerable concern
   that such countries are in danger of succumbing to the same obesity
--
   at comparable BMI and age, South Asians were at increased
   cardiovascular risk compared to their Caucasian counterparts [12–14].
   Given that fast food is implicated as one of contributors to the
   increase in obesity rates [2], understanding the perceptions of fast
   food and reasons for eating at fast food restaurants in India will help
   inform health promotion strategies.

   Research on people’s perceptions about fast food in India is limited.
   Results of a study that surveyed Indian adults in their 20s showed
   that, although they preferred home cooking over fast food, their main
   reasons for visiting fast food establishments were going there for fun,
   change of scenery, and socializing [8]. In another recent study that
   surveyed 106 South Asians from Bangladesh, researchers revealed that
   consumers are most likely to buy lunch or midday snack at a
   Western-style fast food restaurant and consider costs, mood of the
   restaurant, availability of various types of food, convenience, and
   location of the restaurant in their decision [15]. While these studies
   did investigate South Asian people’s preferences regarding fast food,
   they did not explore whether those differ between people living in
   neighbourhoods of differing income levels. This is important given that
   neighbourhood income was found to be associated with fast food density
   and obesity in developed countries [6, 16, 17]. Consequently, the main
   objectives of this study were to explore the differences in fast food
   consumption between Indians adults (35 to 65 years of age) living in
   high- and low-income neighbourhoods in India and to explore if the
   difference in neighbourhood income affects their patronage of fast food
   restaurants and their perception of fast food itself.

Methods
--
   individuals between ages 35 and 65 recruited for the PURE study within
   the above mentioned period agreed to fill out an additional
   questionnaire on fast food behaviour and participate in this study. In
   total, 204 men and women participated in this study, out of which 103
   individuals were from a high-income neighbourhood, while 101 men and
--
   attainment, household income, marital status, and religion as part of
   the PURE study. Additionally, each participant filled out a
   questionnaire in order to be assessed for fast food behaviour. Fast
   food was defined as food with distinctly “Western” characteristics,
   such as sandwiches, take-out pizza, deep fried chicken, or burgers.
   Researchers defined fast food establishments as restaurants that either
   had foods prepared or took little time to prepare, with limited service
   staff and the majority of business derived from take-out sales [11].
   Fast food restaurants included McDonald’s, Pizza Hut, and Kentucky
   Fried Chicken, which were included on the questionnaire because they
   were the most common Western-style fast food restaurants in Chandigarh
   [19–21]. All participants provided informed consent to the study. The
   Simon Fraser University Office of Research Ethics Board approved this
--

   Fast food behaviour was measured using a survey instrument specifically
   developed to explore the differences in fast food perception and
   consumption between individuals from high- and low-income
   neighbourhoods in Chandigarh, India. The face validity of the survey
--
   from the region in and around Chandigarh, India. However, no formal
   test of validity was performed. The questionnaire asked participants
   how they define fast food, about the frequency of fast food dining and
   buying snacks/desserts outside the home, whether or not they enjoyed
   eating at fast food restaurants, and the reasons for eating at fast
   food restaurants. Furthermore, a question on buying food from a local
   street vendor was included in the questionnaire, given that in
   developing countries such as India, buying food from a street vendor is
   an affordable and convenient meal option when eating outside the home.
   In addition, questions were asked about the frequency of eating at
   specific fast food restaurants and traditional restaurants not
   considered fast food. It is important to note that many of the
   participants rarely patronized fast food restaurants, so the questions
   pertaining to frequency of eating outside the home, originally given in
   days per week, are presented as the average number of times per year.
--
   neighbourhood differences in dining out for breakfast, lunch, and
   dinner. Participants were further asked about distance from home to
   fast food restaurants. The survey instrument also asked participants’
   perceptions on which they considered healthier: food cooked at home, or
   food prepared outside the home at non-fast food or fast food
   establishments. Two experienced interviewers fluent in the three most
   common local languages (Punjabi, Hindi, and Urdu) administered the
   questionnaire by interview. It is important to note that although one
   of the initial questions asked participants what closely matched their
   definition of fast food, the interviewers then explained to all
   participants that the remaining questions asking about fast food
   pertained specifically to fast food with distinctly “Western-style”
   characteristics, such as sandwiches, take-out pizza, deep fried
   chicken, and burgers. Having one of the authors (CRA) present at all
--
   (non-normally distributed variables), or a Chi square (χ^2) test
   (categorical variables). Analysis of the question that probes people’s
   reasons for going to fast food restaurants was performed only on
   participants who reported eating at fast food restaurants. A p-value of
   0.05 and less was considered statistically significant. All analyses
   were performed using SPSS version 17.0, SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL.
--
   Full size table

   Perception of fast food was measured by asking the question, “Which
   most closely matches your definition of ‘fast food’”? Options
   participants could choose from were “food sold by street vendors, such
   as bhel puri or samosas”, “food served at restaurants such as
   McDonald’s or Kentucky Fried Chicken”, or “no answer”. Participants
   from a high-income neighbourhood were more likely to report fast food
   as food sold at chain restaurants. In contrast, individuals from a
   low-income neighbourhood were four times more likely to report fast
   food as food sold by street vendors compared to their counterparts from
   a high-income neighbourhood (Table 2).
   Table 2 Differences in perceptions regarding fast food between
   individuals from high- and a low-income neighbourhoods
   Full size table

   There was a significant association between neighbourhood income and
   whether or not people enjoyed eating at fast food restaurants (p =
   0.002) (Table 2). Participants from the high-income neighbourhood were
   more likely to report enjoying eating at fast food restaurants compared
   to people from a low-income neighbourhood (30.1% vs. 9.9%). However, a
   substantial percentage of participants from both high-income (35%) and
   low-income (49.5%) neighbourhoods reported not eating fast food at
   Western-style fast food restaurants. In addition, about 95% of
   participants from both high- and low-income neighbourhood groups
   reported that having a fast food restaurant closer to their home would
   not make them eat at a fast food restaurant more often. Also, almost
   all participants reported that they prefer home cooking to and believe
   it is healthier than restaurant food (Table 2).
--
   breakfast, lunch, and dinner outside the home (5.9 vs. 2.3 times per
   year; p < 0.001). Furthermore, participants from the high-income
   neighbourhood reported more frequent visits to fast food restaurants
   such as Pizza Hut, McDonald’s, and Kentucky Fried Chicken (3.5 vs. 1.4
   times per year; p < 0.001), and they dined more often at traditional,
   non-fast food restaurants compared to their counterparts living in the
   low-income neighbourhood (6.0 vs. 2.7 times per year; p<0.001). In
   contrast, people from the low-income neighbourhood were more likely to
   report buying food from street vendors compared to those in the
   high-income group (6.5 vs. 2.7 times per year; p<0.001). Participants
   from the high-income neighbourhood consumed snacks or desserts outside
--

   Subsequent questions (Table 4) probed people’s reasons for eating at
   fast food restaurants. These questions were directed only to
   participants who reported eating at fast food restaurants (64 and 43
   residents of high- and low-income neighbourhoods, respectively). There
   was no difference between people from high- and low-income
   neighbourhoods regarding reasons for eating at fast food restaurants,
   including convenience, price, social enjoyment, and quality of meals.
   In addition, neither group of participants reported price as a reason
   for going to fast food restaurants nor did they report that they ate
   too much fast food.
   Table 4 Reasons for going to fast food establishments of those
   participants who have patronized them
   Full size table
--
   Indian individuals living in a high- and those living in a low-income
   neighbourhood in Chandigarh, India, regarding their patronage of fast
   food restaurants, perception of fast food, and fast food consumption.
   The results of our study indicate that people from a high-income
   neighbourhood dined out more frequently and were more likely to
   perceive Western-style food as fast food, while people from the
   low-income neighbourhood were more likely to identify food sold by
   street vendors as fast food. Based on the questions asked, there were
   no significant differences in the reasons for visiting fast food
   restaurants between the two groups, such as convenience and price, and
   both groups were more in favour of home-cooked over restaurant meals.
--
   increase in average income in India will lead to an increase in
   consumerism [23]. Our study found that individuals from the high-income
   neighbourhood were more likely to eat at fast food restaurants compared
   to their counterparts from the low-income neighbourhood. Furthermore, a
   large minority of our study participants (23%) were not familiar with
   what fast food is, while another 33% cited local street vendors as fast
   food providers, as opposed to Western-style fast food restaurants. Some
   classic examples of Indian street food include samosa, a deep-fried
   pocket of spiced mixture of potato and peas inside a dough made
   primarily of chickpea flour; channa batura, which is spicy chickpeas
   served with a deep-fried, puffy dough; and pav bhaji, a spicy,
   grill-fried puree of tomatoes, carrots, and peppers served with
   white-bread rolls. It is interesting to note that most street vendors
   also use their own recipes and make everything by hand, using a variety
   of oils and ingredients, so the nutritional content of the same type of
   food may differ from vendor to vendor. This greater consumption of
   Western-style fast food in the higher income group is in contrast to
   findings in studies in the West that indicate greater consumption among
   low income individuals [24]. This may be the result of strategic
   marketing by Western fast food companies defined as “glocalisation,”
   which describes a multinational company that tailors products and
   marketing specifically to local cultural tastes [25]. In addition, when
   a fast food company enters a foreign market they usually target the
   middle class and higher [26, 27]. Consequently, given that entry of
   Western-style fast food branded products to India has been facilitated
   for the more affluent consumers, eating Western-style fast food on a
   regular basis is still financially out of reach for low-income people
   [28]. However, in our study, none of the participants cited price as
   impacting their decision to eat at these establishments. Furthermore,
   although the frequency of eating at Western-style fast food restaurants
   was higher among individuals in the high-income neighbourhood compared
   to their counterparts from the low-income neighbourhood, the frequency
   of eating at fast food restaurants was generally low among people from
   both neighbourhoods.

   The Chandigarh Healthy Heart Action Project (CHHAP) reported that more
   people aged 15–24 years old living in an urban area (72%) preferred
   Western-style fast food than people of the same age in rural areas
   (37%) [29]. In our study, we reported that 30% of the high-income group
   enjoyed eating fast food compared to 10% of the low-income. Preference
   levels for fast food appear to be quite lower than the CHHAP findings.
   This difference may be due to the fact that we sampled people from a
   low-income neighbourhood where these participants indicated eating less
   at Western fast food restaurants. Another explanation for this
   difference could be due to our study population being older than that
   in the CHHAP study. Studies in the US generally indicate that fast food
   consumption is greater among younger people [30].

   We also found that in both high- and low-income study participants,
   home cooked food was preferred over food bought in fast food
   establishments and that nearly all participants indicated that home
   cooked foods are healthier than fast food. This is consistent with the
   results of an earlier study, which indicated that younger Indian fast
   food consumers prefer home cooked meals to fast food [8]. One of the
   reasons could be that in the West, fast food more closely resembles
   food typically served throughout the culture, whereas in India,
   Western-style fast food and Indian home cooked food are quite
   different. Although restaurants have tried to make and adapt food to
   local tastes, Western-style fast food is still categorically different
   than traditional fare [26]. Nevertheless, high-income participants
   reported eating at Western-style fast food restaurants more often, but
   there was no difference between the two groups with respect to the
   reasons for eating fast food. It should also be noted we found that
   eating for social enjoyment was the highest cited reason, followed by
   convenience, whereas Farhana and Islam found that brand loyalty and
   quality were the main reasons for consuming fast food in people living
   in Dhaka, Bangladesh, with a mean age of 25 [15]. Goyal and Singh, who
   also found quality and value as the main reason why people patronize
   fast food restaurants, substantiate this point [8]. Interestingly, we
   also asked if the quality of meals were a reason for going to fast food
   restaurants and the response was over 90% negative. Again, age and
   regional differences might provide a reason for the discrepancy of the
   findings.

   Given the rapid expansion of fast food industry in India, and in the
   light of the negative impact of fast food on health [1], it is
   important to understand how Indians perceive fast food and the reasons
   they patronize fast food businesses. Given that fast-food consumption
   has been associated with increases in body weight and insulin
   resistance, it is further implicated in the development of Type 2
   diabetes [4]. In general, people of South Asian background are at
   greater risk for CVD and diabetes compared to other ethnic groups [12,
   13, 31]. While most participants reported they would not eat fast food
   even if it were closer to them, the rapid expansion of fast food
   establishments will increase availability and likely reduce cost of
   fast food. These factors have been found to increase fast food
   consumption in other countries undergoing rapid economic growth [3].

--
   made about the causal relationships between the variables. Moreover,
   only individuals between ages of 35 and 65 years were surveyed. Younger
   generations are typically the higher consumers of fast food, which may
   have obstructed a positive finding of higher levels of fast food
   patronage in a younger cohort. However, surveying older consumers is as
   important as surveying younger ones, as factors influencing choice of
   fast food establishments as well as reasons for visiting and eating at
   fast food outlets might be different for individuals of various age
   groups. The higher rate of illiteracy in the defined high-income
   neighbourhood was unexpected. Factors,such as self-reporting bias can
--
   results cannot be generalized to the whole city of Chandigarh or other
   cities/regions of India. In addition, given that reported consumption
   of fast food was low in our study sample, we did not have enough power
   to explore whether socio-demographic characteristics modify the
   relationship between neighbourhood income and fast food consumption.

Conclusions

   Indians from a high-income neighbourhood were more familiar with fast
   food as it is defined in the West, and they dined at fast food
   restaurants more frequently. Furthermore, they were more likely to
   report that they enjoy eating at Western-style fast food restaurants
   compared to their low-income neighbourhood counterparts. On the other
   hand, Indians living in a low-income neighbourhood were more likely to
   buy and report food sold by street vendors as fast food. Overall,
   consumption of fast food was low among a population of Indians from
   Chandigarh. Future studies should investigate whether rapid expansion
   of fast food establishments will lead to an increase in fast food
   consumption among Indians what was noted in other countries undergoing
   rapid economic growth.
--
       2451-2462. 10.1161/01.ATV.0000186208.06964.91.
       Article  CAS  PubMed  Google Scholar
    2. De Maria AN: Of fast food and franchises. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2003,
       41 (7): 1227-1228. 10.1016/S0735-1097(03)00294-8.
       Article  Google Scholar
--
       Article  CAS  PubMed  Google Scholar
    7. Duffey KJ, Gordon-Larsen P, Jacobs DR, Williams OD, Popkin BM:
       Differential associations of fast food and restaurant food
       consumption with 3-y change in body mass index: the Coronary Artery
       Risk Development in Young Adults Study. Am J Clin Nutr. 2007, 85
       (1): 201-208.
       CAS  PubMed  Google Scholar
    8. Goyal A, Singh NP: Consumer perception about fast food in India: an
       exploratory study. Br Food J. 2007, 109 (2): 182-195.
       10.1108/00070700710725536.
--
       Article  CAS  PubMed  Google Scholar
   15. Farhana N, Islam S: Exploring consumer behavior in the context of
       fast food industry in Dhaka City. J Soc Sci. 2011, 1 (1): 107-124.
       Google Scholar
   16. Block JP, Scribner RA, Desalvo KB: Fast food, race/ethnicity and
--
       [http://www.whoindia.org/LinkFiles/NMH_Resources_chaap_report.pdf]
       Google Scholar
   30. Fanning J, Marsh T, Stiegart K: Determinants of US fast food
       consumption 1994–1998. Br Food J. 2010, 112 (1): 5-20.
       10.1108/00070701011011164.
--

   Aloia, C.R., Gasevic, D., Yusuf, S. et al. Differences in perceptions
   and fast food eating behaviours between Indians living in high- and
   low-income neighbourhoods of Chandigarh, India. Nutr J 12, 4 (2013).
   https://doi.org/10.1186/1475-2891-12-4
