       Global Eats: The Rise of Indian Street Food

The flavors and ingredients of the street-food stalls found throughout India
are making their way onto U.S. restaurant menus.
       The vast culinary landscape of Indian street food is expanding
       throughout the United States in a variety of forms, from kati rolls
       and dosas to various spicy, flavorful snacks known as chaat.
--
       restaurant chain that is adapting Indian foods in familiar forms
       such as burritos and also is offering traditional Indian
       street-food snacks. “What was once described as exotic is now a
       commonplace food, and overall there’s been a greater acceptance of
       ethnic food,” he says. “There is a homey, comfort factor with
       Indian food, and it intrigues many people because it’s different
       from other cuisines.”
       Indian street food varies widely from region to region, and even
       from vendor to vendor within regions. It can incorporate fried
       dough with or without fillings, is often made with a medley of
--
       off the skewer, and a variety of sandwiches filled with flavors
       that are likely unfamiliar to most U.S. consumers.
       Chaat refers to the Indian street “snacks” that are usually built
       upon a crunchy base and topped with chickpeas, potatoes, onions
       and/or various other ingredients, often served with chutneys or an
--
       Emerging Concepts
       Restaurant operators seeking to experiment with chaat or other
       Indian street foods will find no shortage of ideas emerging from
       the concepts dedicated to these foods that are appearing around the
       country. One such concept is Chaatable, a Memphis, Tenn.,
--
       her Morph Hospitality operating company.
       Chauhan, who is also known as a judge on the culinary TV show
       Chopped, says Chaatable strives to offer authentic Indian street
       foods in a vibrant environment that recalls the colorful street
       stalls of her home country. “The U.S. dining market as a whole is
       becoming very sophisticated and global,” she says. “Our guests at
--
       In developing the menu, Chauhan says she sought to “cover the major
       [protein] categories,” while giving customers an authentic Indian
       street-food experience. “At the end of the day we stayed authentic
       and true to traditional Indian street food because we knew it’s
       what customers wanted,” she says.
       The menu pulls flavors and ingredients from various Indian regions
--
       puffed rice dish with choice of ingredients), Butter Chicken, and
       Samosas, says Chauhan.
       Some Indian street foods were deemed a little too eccentric for
       U.S. palates, however. Chauhan opted not to include bheja fry, for
       example, which is made with sautéed goat’s brain. “We thought that
--
       jalapeño, cheese, and paneer or chicken tikka masala.
       The company, which launched as a food truck in 2009, wanted to
       create its own variety of hand-held Indian street foods. It takes
       the relatively unfamiliar flavors of Indian cuisine and introduces
       them in more familiar hand-held forms such as burritos, tacos,
--
       Coriander, cumin, asafetida, turmeric, fennel, allspice, cloves,
       chili powder, etc., are all spices that we use in our food.”
       In addition to the burritos and bowls, the street-snack portion of
       the menu also generates a lot of consumer interest. These include a
       giant samosa known as ‘The Dude,” which is filled with chicken
       biryani and a sous-vide egg. Other items include Vada Pav, which is
       a slider-style sandwich common on the streets of Mumbai, and Pav
       Bhaji, a vegetable mash served with pav bread (an Indian bread
       roll).
--
       of chana garbanzo masala, pico kachumber (an Indian salad made with
       cucumber and tomato), chutneys, mini samosas, and a choice of
       protein. “It’s a reimagined version of a traditional Indian street
       food, but with added layers and deeper flavor from the toppings,”
       says Kapoor, who describes it as a “party in your mouth
--
       Bridging the Gap
       In New York City, Deep Foods is bridging the gap between
       traditional Indian foods and consumer interest in Indian street
       foods at its restaurants. The company operates five Deep Indian
       Kitchen restaurant locations, all in Manhattan.
--
       popular, Amin says.
       Among the grab-and-go items are kati rolls—which many people are
       already familiar with from Indian street cars in New York, along
       with dosa, which is a rice-based crepe that also happens to be
       gluten-free. Samosas, which often appear as an appetizer on Indian
--
       Retail Products Target Grab-and-Go Snackers
       Anshu Dua, co-founder and CEO of The Chaat Co., New York, is
       seeking to create the Sabra of Indian street foods.
       The startup is launching its products, a line of fresh Indian snack
       packs, into a limited number of retail stores, including some Whole
--
       while tomato reflects southern Indian cuisine.
       “You will find these chutneys as condiments for a variety of
       different types of street food in India,” says Dua. “We tried to
       capture many of the ingredients and the flavors from that, and
       created a snacking experience for Americans so they can experience
--
       Foods, parent of the Tandoor Chef line of frozen Indian foods and
       the Deep Indian Kitchen restaurant chain in New York, says Deep
       Foods is looking to bring back more hand-held Indian street foods
       into its product line. “It’s all about grab-and-go items, and items
       that are full of flavor,” he says.
