   #RRcafe » Feed RRcafe » Comments Feed RRcafe » Eat like a local: The
   enchating flavours of Bengali street food Comments Feed alternate
   alternate alternate

--
   150869917 445501503467175 3950225542854206950 n

Eat like a local: The enchating flavours of Bengali street food

   Leave a Comment / Food & Culture / By chandrani

   Ever since I was a child, I used to hear about street food all the
   time. It’s like every family in India has their own little story of
   eating on the streets and how it impacted their life.
--
   “murgir jhol”.

   Street food culture is so rich with history and memories! There are
   many varieties of Indian street foods, but Bengal cuisine stands out
   because of its unique flavours infused with mustard oil, which tastes
--
   foodie. The dynamism of Bengal’s cuisine can be found not only in
   traditional kitchens or legendary restaurants but also in the city’s
   street food culture.

The street food culture in Bengal:

   Street food has always been popular among the masses. The types of
   street foods have also evolved over the years to match changing
   consumer preferences.
   image

   Street food is usually an affordable way to enjoy delicious cuisines,
   especially for people who cannot afford to eat at restaurants all the
   time. Moreover, it is not difficult to find street food vendors
   anywhere globally. They are located on busy streets and markets in
   towns and cities across continents like Europe, America, Asia and
--
   or after their main meals.

   It is up to you whether you choose to enjoy street food by sitting at a
   local restaurant or buying types of street foods in Bengal from a
   mobile vendor.

The history of street food in Bengal:

   The history of street food in Bengal can be traced back to the time of
   the British Raj.

--
   food began to emerge as its distinct cuisine.

   Street food was an essential part of everyday life for the people of
   Bengal, and there were many different types of street foods that were
   popular among the locals.

   Today, street food is still wildly popular in Bengal. Countless stalls
   and carts are selling all sorts of delicious.

--
Some of the most famous street foods in Bengal include:

   Street food is a general term for food that is prepared and sold in a
   street market or by street vendors. It is often associated with
   Southeast Asian and South Asian cuisines. In Bengal, various types of
--
       are typically deep-fried and served with chutney or ketchup.

     * Jhalmuri: Jhalmuri is a type of street food unique to Bengal. It is
       made by mixing various ingredients like rice puffs, chickpeas,
       potatoes, onions, chaat masala and lime juice. This dish is usually
--
     * Momos: These Tibetan dumplings are filled with a variety of
       different fillings, including pork, chicken, or vegetables. They
       are served with a dipping sauce and popular street food in Bengal.

     * Puchka: Puchka is a type of panipuri, a popular Indian street food
       item made of flour dough balls filled with spiced mashed potatoes,
       chickpeas and water chestnuts, then deep-fried in oil. It is
       usually served with tamarind and green chutney.

     * Kati roll: Kati roll is an Indian street food item that originated
       in Kolkata, Bengal. It is made of paratha (a type of unleavened
       flatbread) filled with various cooked fillings, such as keema
       (minced meat), paneer (cottage cheese) and egg.

     * Ghugni: It is a common street food item in Bengal, Assam, and
       India’s eastern states, such as Bihar and Jharkhand. It is made by
       cooking dried white peas with spices such as cumin seeds,
--
   street foods! You won’t be disappointed!

How is RR Café embracing local street food culture into its food chain
outlet?

   RR Café, a theme-based food outlet, has tried to imbibe the street food
   items into its menu. The tasty delicacies of street food are now served
   under the roof of RR Café.

   RR Café is improving the concept of street food into café food,
   combining the old-world charm with quality standards & required
   hygiene.

   So, now you can enjoy your favourite street food items at the RR café
   food outlets along with a settled ambience & in the comfort of your
   place.
--
   image 1 RR Cafe Chandannagar

   RR Café Chandannagar is a book café, so along with the street food
   items, you can enjoy reading & slip into the world of new stories.
   image 2 RR Cafe Serampore
--
   RR Café Serampore is a music café that offers you a vast menu of
   musical pieces curated & designed to provide a great experience to the
   listener, along with your favourite street food items.

Conclusion:

   If there’s one region in India that knows how to do street food, it’s
   Bengal. From savoury snacks like kabiraji to heartier fare like momos,
   the options are endless – and delicious. So, if you’re ever in the
--

     * PUJO IS HERE SO SATIATE YOUR TASTE BUDS
     * Eating fast food in Bengal
     * 7 Must-Do things In Chandannagar
     * 8 Must-Do things In Serampore
