    #WORLDCHEFS » Feed WORLDCHEFS » Comments Feed WORLDCHEFS » History of
   Street Food Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

   (BUTTON)   Discover Worldchefs
--
       Learn More

   Home > News > History of Street Food

   More News

History of Street Food

   Read time: 2 Min
   France, 04th August 2015

            The roots of street food can take us way back into history. It
   is believed that as the first distribution point of street food, small
   fried fish were sold on the streets in ancient Greece. Street food was
   widely consumed by poor urban residents of ancient Rome whose tenement
   homes did not have ovens or hearths. In ancient China, where street
   foods generally catered to the poor, wealthy residents would send
   servants to buy street foods and bring meals back for their masters to
   eat in their homes. Urbanisation and street food go hand in hand.
   Historically, in places such as ancient Rome, street food was purchased
   because urban poor did not have kitchens in their homes. Across the
   globe, street food, sometimes also synonymous with fast food, has
   become an important part of daily life as local population increasingly
   struggle to keep pace with their hectic lifestyles. The street vendors
   offer hotfresh, lip smacking snacks which are very filling and absolute
   value for money. Take-out food, junk food, snacks, and fast food are
   synonymous with street food and all of these can be purchased on the
   foot path without entering any building. These foods are popular mainly
   because they are easily available, and that too at half the price or
   less of any restaurant food. It is of particular cultural importance to
   India, where this forms the means of livelihood for many pushcart
   vendors, dhaba owners and their families. This street food culture also
   ensures that the connection with India’s rich cultural heritage is
   retained, with influences ranging from the Mughal dynasty to the
   British Empire. According to an estimate of the Food and Agriculture
   Organisation, which was released in 2012, over 2.5 billion people eat
   street food in India every day. The National Street Food Festival,
   which is an annual event organised in Delhi by the National Association
   of Street Food Vendors of India is a platform where street food from
   all the states of the country is showcased. This is a platform which
   showcases the cultural diversity of the country in the culinary space –
   specially catering to street food.

           Today, while some street foods are regional, many are not,
   having spread beyond their region of origin. A lot of people, who have
   not been exposed to the street food culture, shy away from it thinking
   it is unhealthy and unhygienic. However, one would be surprised to
   note, that despite concerns about contamination at street food vendors,
   the incidence of such is low with multiple studies showing rates
   comparable to restaurants.
