
   Nothing helps a person understand a new culture better than exploring a
   country's street food.

   India is so packed full of incredible street food to try that it can be
   hard to know where to start. In this article, you'll find our practical
   guide to the best street food cities, top street food dishes, and some
   information on how to eat street food safely.

   Some of the top street food cities in India are Delhi, Mumbai, and
   Jaipur. Some of our favorite dishes are aloo tikki, pani puri, and pav
   bhaji.
   Best street food in India

India's Love of Street Food

   India has always loved its street food and any city you visit in the
   country will be lined with vendors selling local favorites. On the
   streets, you can find meals, desserts, and refreshing drinks like chai
   or fresh-squeezed juice.

   Indian street food is often spicy, sometimes oily, and always
   delicious. It's also a great equalizer with people from all classes and
   economic backgrounds lining up at popular vendors.

   Indian street food has a long history. On the streets of Delhi, you can
   visit kebab vendors who used to serve the Mughal kings. In Kolkata,
   you'll find fusion street food that was created with British customers
   in mind during colonial times.
   Recommended Articles
--
Best 4 Indian Cities for Street Food

   No matter where you go in India, you'll find tasty street food to try
   but some cities are more famous for their local specialties than
   others. Below are our recommended street food destinations.

1. Delhi
--
   The capital of India not only today but also during the time of Mughal
   kings and British rule, Delhi is a large mixture of cultures and a
   foodies' paradise. From street food to international cuisines, Delhi
   can blow your mind in every expanse.

--
   and mutton tikka.

   Jaipuri street food is often flavorful, spicy, and sweet.

3. Mumbai

   Not only do you have a chance to taste some incredibly flavorful
   combinations of ingredients, but standing along the humid streets of
   Mumbai, watching countless people go by, is part of what adds to your
   experience.

   Mumbai has quite a unique street food scene and is the place where
   delicacies like pav bhaji and bhelpuri were invented.

4. Kolkata

   Kolkata is often named the number one spot street food city in the
   country by Indians. Kolkata is particularly famous for its quantity of
   vendors and sheer variety of options.
--
15 Best Indian Street Food Dishes to Try

   Indian street food is considered by some to be the hidden gem of Indian
   cuisine. Not only are the appetizer-sized portions ideal, but there is
   absolutely no skimping on the flavor right down to the tiniest bite.

   Another great thing about Indian street food is the sheet variety of
   options, carnivores will find plenty of dishes that are packed full of
   spiced meats whereas vegetarians and vegans will also be able to find
--
1. Pani Puri

   Pani puri, India's favorite street food Pani puri can also be eaten
   dry, without the water

   Also known in certain parts of India as gol gappa of puchka, pani puri
   is considered to be the national symbol of Indian street food. Puri is
   a small round ball of crunchy bread.

--
   and chaat masala.

   Although pani puris are of the most popular street foods around, we
   recommend only trying them when your stomach is used to Indian food.
   For some people, the water in the pani puri can cause stomach upsets.
--
2. Aloo Tikki

   Aloo tikki indian street food Aloo Tikki is a filling and tasty
   on-the-go meal

   This Indian street food item is the South Asian version of a potato
   croquette. Aloo tikki is made by mashing boiled potatoes which are
   mixed with coriander, onions, and special spices. They are then shaped
--
3. Jhal Muri

   Jhal muri indian street food Jhal muri is a great snack

   Jhal muri is a popular street food of Kolkata. This is the perfect
   on-the-go snack, which are easily available at almost all the corners
   of the city.
--
   tart, and spicy flavors.

   What makes this street food item different from the others is its sharp
   taste, which is due to the presence of raw mustard oil.

4. Pav Bhaji

   pav bhaji indian street food Pav bhaji is also served in some
   restaurants

--
   lamb kebabs indian sreet food Lamb kebabs cooking over an open flame

   In India, there are all different types of kebabs available at street
   food vendors around the nation. In the northern cities like Delhi and
   Jaipur, some of the most popular kebabs are mutton served with a mint
--
6. Chaat

   Chaat indian street food The toppings on papri chaat vary be region

   Chaat is not only the Indian name for "street food" but is also its own
   entire dish. When people order chaat, they are often ordering papri
   chaat which is a plate that is piled high with many ingredients. The
--
7. Pakoras

   pakoras indian street food Pakoras come in all different shapes and
   sizes and are often served to guests

   Pakoras are not only served at street food vendors but are also often
   served in homes and at restaurants as appetizers. Pakoras are delicious
   fritters that are made by coating mixed vegetables in a spice and
--
   Pakoras are often served with an array of sauces, or chutneys, of which
   mint chutney is probably the most popular. During midday, it is common
   to see office workers on the streets eating pakoras and drinking chai.

8. Samosas

   samosas indian street food Samosas can have many fillings but more are
   vegetarian

   Samosas are probably the Indian street food that are the most globally
   well-known. Just like pakoras, while samosas are served at street food
   vendors they can also be found in Indian homes and at restaurants as
   appetizers.
--
   veggies like potatoes, peas, and carrots then deep-fried.

   If you are new to Indian street food, then samosas are a great first
   one to try because they are absolutely delicious and unlikely to cause
   a stomach upset.
--
9. Vada Pav

   vada pav indian street food Vada pav is sometimes called an Indian
   hamburger

   Vada pav is probably the most popular street food in Mumbai and it
   wouldn't be an exaggeration to say that almost a quarter of the city
   eats it every morning for breakfast.
--
10. Kathi Roll

   Kathi rolls indian street food Kathi rolls are also served in Jaipur

   Kathi rolls were invented in Kolkata during the period of British
   colonialism. The origin story on the streets is that the rolls were
   made to sell to the British who thought that other Indian food was too
   messy.
--
11. Momos

   momos indian street food Momos can be served with a variety of
   different sauces

--
12. Chole Bhature

   chole bhature indian street food Chole bhature is often served with
   fried bread and raw onion

   Chole bhature is a street food that is very popular in Punjab and
   Delhi. This street food is really a hearty and delicious meal that can
   be ordered at street vendors around the city.

   Chole bhature is a chickpea curry that is served alongside bhature
--
13. Dosa

   dosa and idli indian street food Dosa and idli with sauces is a common
   breakfast

   Dosas are a popular South Indian breakfast food that are made from a
   fermented rice and lentil batter that is poured out into a thin circle
   on a large griddle. When the dosa is cooked it is then rolled up and
--
14. Kachori

   kachori indian street food Kachoris are a filling snack

   A kachori is a popular Indian snack which is a circular fried bread
--
   potato, and more.

   This is a popular breakfast food in Rajasthan.

15. Kulfi

   kulfi indian street food Indian creamy ice cream treats

   Kulfi is the Indian version of ice cream and is made with full-fat milk
--
   exercise caution when choosing what to try and where to buy it.

   Locals are accustomed to having street food and know where the best
   stalls are. If the locals are avoiding a particular vendor, you should
   too. Go to places where you see they are busy, as this assures quick
   turnover and fresh ingredients.

   If you aren't sure which street stalls are the most popular, feel free
   to ask your hotel staff or guide for advice.

--

   Street food in India is tasty, cheap, and consequently, very popular.
   Tucking into street food is one of the joys of experiencing India.
   Travel with Asia Highlights where they can take you to enjoy the
   various and delicious street foods that India has to offer.

   At Asia Highlights, we can make sure your trip to India will be a fun
