   15/03/2019 Newest

   Indian street food is probably the first thing that comes to mind of
   food lovers when they think or talk about food. You've come to the
   right place if you want to know about and try the most mouth-watering
--

   Ask any food lover who loves to eat at a roadside food stall as to why
   they're so fond of street food? We bet, you won't just get a single
   reason, because there are so many reasons behind the cravings for
   street food throughout the world. To name some:
     * Street foods are the cheapest. For people who don't have a
       sufficient income, people who are bored of eating a home-cooked
       meal, unemployed people, Indian street food comes as a blessing for
       everyone. No matter who you are or what your financial status is,
       street food is something that fits everyone's pockets.
     * Many times when you walk on the road, the smell of some roadside
       dish hits you, and you decide to stop and have a plate of your
--
       honest, everyone over there does the same thing.
     * Who would doubt the authenticity of this sentence when we say that
       street foods are tasty! You won't find a single food stall across
       the world where people don't enjoy the taste of the food they're
       offered.
--
   difference in culture, diversity in languages spoken, a variety of
   people, and diversity in food as well. Every Indian state, every Indian
   city has its speciality when it comes to street food. Can you roam the
   streets of Indore without having the mouth-watering 'Poha and Jalebi'
   which is the finest street food and speciality of Indore? Can you walk
   through the busy and crowded lanes of Mumbai without grasping a
   'Vadapav'? What about the lip-smacking 'Aloo-tikkis' of Lucknow, Uttar
   Pradesh or the most popular 'Idlis and Vada-Sambhar' of Chennai? You
   won't be able to resist the temptation! When it comes to street food,
   no other country can beat India where not just one or two or three, but
   every single state and city has its variety of delicacies.
   Talk about the famous 'Bikaneri-Kachori' of the royal state of
   Rajasthan, India. Bikaner is noted for its amazing cuisines and
   delectable street foods. Not just Bikaneri-Kachori, the desert state is
   also favourite for its famous Dal-Baati Churma and Pakoras. These food
   items can be found in almost every street stall of Bikaner.
   Back to top

--
   [TRNhejY0VJ.jpg]

   The popularity of Indian street food can be known from the very fact
   that every day millions of people from different regions prefer to eat
   roadside food from various street vendors. According to our Ancient
   Hindu Dietary rules, there are two concepts when it comes to food -
   Kaccha food and Pakka food. These concepts are still at play even
--
   Kaccha food such as rice and dal require certain kind of purifying
   rituals to deliver them safe for people to eat whereas Pakka food items
   can be securely consumed outside one's house. Hence, Indian street
   foods are generally made from the Pakka food items because that's what
   is acceptable amongst most consumers.
   If we take a look at the health and hygiene aspect of Indian street
   food today, it is no more unclean or unhealthy (unless you eat from
   some very rearward area.) You will find that almost every other Indian
   street food vendor uses vegetables, pulses as well as many ayurvedic
   species such as garlic and turmeric. All these healthy ingredients add
   to the richness of street food. Moreover, many street vendors these
   days wear disposable gloves to avoid any health problem.
   Western visitors when in India often try to stay away from roadside
   stalls because they're concerned about the hygiene. But if you ask me,
   Indian street foods are way much healthy, better, and freshly cooked as
   compared to any tourist restaurant cuisine. Unlike restaurants where
   you're not even sure whether the food that you're being served is newly
   prepared or old or might even be leftover food, street vendors
   guarantee you to offer the best and freshly prepared food. It satisfies
   us to see that the food that we're going to eat is cooked right in
   front of our eyes. What can be better than this? The street vendors of
   India make a living out of their stalls, so they'll always make sure to
   satisfy their customers so that the customers visit again. And which is
   why they also make sure that the food is not only tasty but at the same
   time fresh and hygienic. It is why we Indians can proudly say that our
   street foods are the best and the most popular ones.
   Back to top

--
   combination of spicy chana masala (Chole) and soft Bhature can make any
   food lover's day. One can find this absolute wealthy treat almost
   everywhere on the streets of Delhi. Paharganj, Kamla Nagar, Sardar
   Bazar are the areas in Delhi where you can enjoy the best piping hot
   plate of Chole bhature.
--
   Momos in many states and cities of India. But if you want to enjoy the
   authentic taste of Momos, then Northeast India have it best. Go out on
   the streets of Nepal, Ladakh, Jammu, and Tibet, and you can find people
   enjoying the hot steamed dumpling of Momos. The outer cover of a Momo
   is generally made of water and white flour dough. At times a little
   baking soda is added to improve the texture of the dough. Momos are of
   two types - steamed and fried. You can easily find two kind of Momos on
   the streets of Nepal and they are commonly served with a dipping tomato
   sauce.

--
   long for during summers. Many shops provide some excellently flavoured
   Ice-gola, but nothing is better than having a cold, refreshing Ice-gola
   on the roadside streets while beating the scorching heat and reliving
   those happy childhood days once again.

--
   them. Dahi Puri is most popular in the state of Maharashtra, India and
   it's believed to be originated from the Mumbai city. Walk into the
   streets of Mumbai, and you will come across numerous street stalls
   offering Dahi Puri along with other famous chats. One gets to eat like
   some 5 or 6 Dahi Puris per plate. Just like Pani puri, each Dahi Puri
--
   This Indian dish is also prepared in other states of India such as
   Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, and Telangana. You can't find as
   many stalls of vendors selling poha as that of other famous street
   chaats. But there are areas in Maharashtra where you can enjoy the best
   poha dishes.
--

   This round, hollow, and crunchy puri ranks on the top list of every
   street food lover. Different regions have different names for
   pani-puri. In Madhya Pradesh it is called fulki, paani-patashi in
   Haryana, gol-gappa in Uttar Pradesh, pakodi in Gujarat and the list is
--

   Along with all the Street Foods of India, it would be unfair if we
   didn’t mention the most popular ‘Sandwiches of Bombay'. This street
   food is the favourite of every single person residing in Bombay. You
   will find many stalls lined up with different versions of sandwiches in
--
   After all the information about the Street Foods of India, do you now
   believe that we Indians have the origins of some of the world's best
   street foods?!

   Related articles
--

   Street Food is present throughout the world. But if you're a food lover
   and you haven't heard or tried food of the Indian streets by now,
   you're missing out on something real amazing! Go ahead, rather than
   going out in those fancy big restaurants, try something new every day
--
     * cheap
     * food
     * street food

   Recipient
