   India’s culinary offerings are practically endless. For the easiest —
   and tastiest — intro to the vast world of Indian cuisine, look no
   further than the humble street stall. Popularly referred to as
   nukkadwala food, Indian street snacks are affordable, accessible and
   mouthwateringly delicious — they also go pretty darn well with a brew.
   Unsure where to start? Simply follow the locals to the most
--

   The Hindi word for lick, also a generic term for the essential fried
   snacks of Indian street food.
   [FF_indian_2-Chatpata.png] [yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7]
   CHATPATA
--
   SPECIALTY EATS

   The street foods unique to India’s cities and regions, from New Delhi
   to Mumbai to Kochi.
   [FF_indian_4-Yoghurt.png] [yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7]
--

   Contested, colourful and different depending on who you ask,
   practically every Indian street snack has its own fascinating origin
   story. In fact, the history of Indian street treats is as varied as the
   spices used to flavour them. There’s pav bhaji, a bread and curry combo
   said to have originated in the mid-1800s as a midnight dinner for
--
   corruption of the Arabic ‘zalabiya’.

   Diverse and diverging histories aside, street food remains at the heart
   of contemporary Indian life. Street stalls provide sustenance for
   labourers and students who can’t afford to eat in more formal eateries,
   a convenient lunch spot for busy office workers and employment for
   over ten million people who make their living selling food and other
   goods on the street.

   Encyclopedia of Eats: Indian Street Food Encyclopedia of Eats: Indian
--

   With so many mouthwatering options on offer, deciding what to eat on an
   Indian street food adventure can be an anxiety-inducing affair. To help
   you spend less time deliberating and more time stuffing your face,
   we’ve rounded up ten of the best gustatory delights the Indian streets
   have to offer. Go forth and feast.

--
EATING ETIQUETTE

   The main rule for eating Indian food — on the street or otherwise — is
   to forget all you’ve been taught about eating with your hands. Here,
   it’s not rude to touch your food; it’s expected. Said to improve
