
   It is easy to laugh and shrug off the above anecdote, but in reality,
   it is no laughing matter. It speaks volumes about how fast food has
   seeped into Indian culture and has altered the eating habits of our
   future – our youth. It also tells us about the addictive nature of fast
   foods and the link between fast food and weight gain or obesity.

   Such a radical change in the eating habits of a population is a clear
--
   Fast Food Kills

   There can be no discussions about the fact that fast food is not
   healthy — in fact it kills.
   [INS: :INS]

   Worldwide, regardless of whether you eat it or not, fast food and its
   consequences have become inescapable. They are definitely ruining the
   health of young consumers. If someone calls this as the unhealthiest
--

   As a society, we are ﬂooded with research reports telling us how the
   quick and tasty bites at fast food restaurants are killing us slowly.
   Bad diet is a bigger killer than any other risk factor in the world. It
   is not the pathogens in food that are shortening our life span, but it
--
Fast food can make you impatient

   Merely thinking about fast food can make you feel hurried. Just looking
   at the logos of fast-food companies is enough to affect our attitude
   and judgment. Diﬃcult to believe? But these are the results reported by
--
   subconsciously viewed fast-food logos and the other who were not
   exposed to the logos – were given the task of reading certain passages
   with no time limit. The group that viewed the logos of the fast food
   companies subconsciously read the passages more quickly as compared to
   the group that were not exposed to the logos. Researchers also found
--
   India today is not only the fifth economic power also it has broken
   into the top five countries in terms of adult obesity. Obesity is
   mainly a problem of modern India, teeming with fast food outlets and
   American-style malls.

--
   as old and young. Accordingly, nine out of 10 children above the age of
   15 will be online. While this is a great achievement, it is also the
   target population of the global fast food companies, who will step up
   their marketing efforts to reach them. The Internet and social media
   are the latest armours at the disposal of the fast food companies. Not
   surprisingly, the fast-food industry is the sector with the highest
   online engagement rates.
--
   A study published in the Royal Society Open Science in 2020 by a few
   researchers from Macquarie University in Sydney examined the eﬀects
   that fast food can have on our mental state, its functions, and their
   results. The shocking result was that it takes only a week for these
   processed foods especially the western style meal to have a notable
--
   slowly to the pressure of the new invasion, the fast-food culture. Just
   as the East India Company drained wealth of its colonies, now these
   fast food and soft drink multi-nationals are draining the wealth and
   health of our nation.

