                                  TOP NEWS

    India’s street vendors are the essence of our country's food industry
    Thursday, 10 December, 2020, 13 : 00 PM [IST]
    Ritesh Tulsian
   Indian street food has a very special gastronomic place in India’s food
   history and culture. Indian street food is probably the first thing
   that comes to the mind of food lovers when they think or talk about
   food. Indian street foods are known worldwide for their taste,
   diversity and easy accessibility and available all across the country
   whether it’s a metropolitan city or a small town or a village.
   As there is no conclusive documented history of Indian street food so
   it’s not easy to know exactly when it began but as per the popular
   belief street food in India became popular in Delhi when the Mughal
   Emperor, Shah Jahan moved his capital from Agra to Delhi. Chaats the
   most popular variety of street food available across India today was
   first introduced in Old Delhi to the vegetarian traders as a mid day
   meal by chaat specialist cooks that were invited from Varanasi to Delhi
   to set shop by the officials of the Mughal Dynasty.
   Another variety of street food is Kebabs, Nihari, Biryani, Kormas,
   etc., also seen gaining a lot of acceptance amongst the middle income
   group of the inhabitants of old Delhi who loved their meat and relished
--
   ‘Main toh raste se jaa raha tha, main toh bhel puri kha raha tha'.
   Almost everyone would be familiar with this very famous 90,s Bollywood
   track. Not only does it aptly depict the actual Indian street food
   scene but is also enough to make you grab a plate of bhel puri right
   away. When it comes to street food, India tops the charts. Food and
   beverages that are usually sold on streets by hawkers and vendors in
   portable stalls and carts is what is termed as street food. Move over
   aloo chaat’s and tikkis as India has got lots to offer. Be it north,
   south, east or west, every region of India has its own specialty. Made
   with a mélange of exotic spices and ingredients, Indian street food is
   one of its kinds. Apart from Indians, a lot of foreign travelers swear
   by Indian street food as well.
   Why is street food loved across the nation so much?
   Ask any food lover who loves to eat at a roadside food stall as to why
   they're so fond of street food? We bet, you won't just get a single
   reason, because there are so many reasons behind the cravings for
   street food throughout the world. To name a few:
   •    Street foods are the cheapest. For people who don't have a
   sufficient income, people who are bored of eating a home-cooked meal,
   unemployed people, Indian street food comes as a blessing for everyone.
   No matter who you are or what your financial status is, street food is
   something that fits everyone's pockets.
   •    Many times when you walk on the road, the smell of some roadside
--
   everyone over there does the same thing.
   •    Who would doubt the authenticity of this sentence when we say that
   street foods are tasty! You won't find a single food stall across the
   world where people don't enjoy the taste of the food they're offered.
   The vast variety of Indian street food
   India is a country where you will find diversity in everything. The
   difference in culture, diversity in languages spoken, a variety of
   people, and diversity in food as well. Every Indian state, every Indian
   city has its specialty when it comes to street food.
   Can you roam the streets of Indore without having the mouth-watering
   'Poha and Jalebi' which is the finest street food and specialty of
   Indore? Can you walk through the busy and crowded lanes of Mumbai
   without grasping a 'Vada Pav'? What about the lip-smacking 'Aloo
   Tikkis' of Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh or the most popular 'Idlis and
   Vada-Sambhar' of Chennai? Jhal Mudi, Kolkata Style Kathi Kebab Rolls,
   Mughlai Paratha or the Fish Fry from the streets of Kolkata will make
   you stop right what you are doing as you won't be able to resist the
   temptation! When it comes to street food, no other country can beat
   India where not just one or two or three, but every single state and
   city has its variety of delicacies.
   Talk about the famous 'Bikaneri-Kachori' of the royal state of
   Rajasthan, India. Bikaner is noted for its amazing cuisines and
   delectable street foods. Not just Bikaneri-Kachori, the desert state is
   also favourite for its famous Dal-Baati Churma and Pakoras. These food
   items can be found in almost every street stall of Bikaner.
   What makes Indian street food so popular?
   The popularity of Indian street food can be known from the very fact
   that every day millions of people from different regions prefer to eat
   roadside food from various street vendors. According to our Ancient
   Hindu Dietary rules, there are two concepts when it comes to food -
   Kaccha food and Pakka food. These concepts are still at play even
--
   Kaccha food such as rice and dal require certain kind of purifying
   rituals to deliver them safe for people to eat whereas Pakka food items
   can be securely consumed outside one's house. Hence, Indian street
   foods are generally made from the Pakka food items because that's what
   is acceptable amongst most consumers.
   If we take a look at the health and hygiene aspect of Indian street
   food today, it is no more unclean or unhealthy (unless you eat from
   some very rearward area.) You will find that almost every other Indian
   street food vendor uses vegetables, pulses as well as many ayurvedic
   spices such as garlic and turmeric. All these healthy ingredients add
   to the richness of street food. Moreover, many street vendors these
   days wear disposable gloves to avoid any health problems.
   Some people in India often try to stay away from roadside stalls
   because they're concerned about the hygiene. But if you ask me, Indian
   street foods are way much healthy, better, and freshly cooked. It
   satisfies us to see that the food that we're going to eat is cooked
   right in front of our eyes. What can be better than this? The street
   vendors of India make a living out of their stalls, so they'll always
   make sure to satisfy their customers so that the customers visit again.
   And which is why they also make sure that the food is not only tasty
   but at the same time fresh and hygienic. It is why we Indians can
   proudly say that our street foods are the best and the most popular
   ones.
   (The author is consultant chef and partner at HCS Global Corp. He can
