
   MBA grad Meherwan Irani’s restaurant Chai Pani in Asheville, USA, is
   becoming the go-to for thousands of hungry Indian street food lovers
   from across borders.

--
   Maharashtra, decided to move to the United States for his MBA degree.
   Before moving continents, however, Meherwan wanted to satisfy his
   craving for Indian street food one last time, as he knew he would
   dearly miss it when he made the transition.

--

   The idea, he says, was a simple one — to introduce America to the
   Indian street food that he had grown up eating and loving. However, for
   a corporate employee to shift professions wasn’t an easy task. But he
   found support in his wife Molly.
--
   As people from in and around Asheville began frequenting the place, the
   popularity of the dishes grew. Meherwan was amazed at how loved Indian
   street food really was. So, in 2013, having tasted immense success in
   the first branch of the restaurant, he opened another branch in
   Atlanta.
--

   As part of Chai Pani’s menu, there are Indian snacks and food you’d
   typically find on the streets here, being sold at affordable prices.
   What sets them apart is that they incorporate the true taste of India,
   with their desi tadkas.
--
   spicy and sweet chutneys.

   And this makes the chef’s day. “I felt Indian street food was one of
   the most underrepresented foods in Western culture. Diners craved the
   stereotype-shattering food, drinks and service of Chai Pani, and this
--
   interesting, unexpected, and personal than a handful of regional
   cuisines that have been popularised so far,” he says. “To me, there is
   no other food that captures the essence of India like street food —
   chaotic, colourful, innovative, vibrant, joyful, complex, and of
   course, delicious.”

   So while, street food lovers gorge on tangy, crunchy, spicy bhel puri
   or satisfy their sweet cravings with a dahi puri or the humble aloo
   tikki chaat, the menu also caters to non-veg aficionados. There’s keema
--

   What worked most for them was staying authentic, according to Chef
   Irani. “We ensured that we stayed true to the concept of Indian street
   food, which is meant to be affordable and approachable to everybody.”

   “I’m so proud that Indian food and specifically street food is being
   recognised on a national and global level.”

