   factors that contributed to the growth of the restaurant industry.

   But the real game changer was the entry of American fast food chain
   McDonalds into India in the year 1996. Indians, who had limited
   exposure to American food until then, lapped it up and gave rise to a
   huge upsurge in the quick service restaurant (QSR) industry. The
   following years saw the establishment of many international fast food
   chains such as Dominos, Pizza Hut, KFC, etc.

   But the real game changer was the entry of American fast food chain
   McDonalds into India in the year 1996. Indians, who had limited
   exposure to American food until then, lapped it up and gave rise to a
   huge upsurge in the quick service restaurant (QSR) industry. The
   following years saw the establishment of many international fast food
   chains such as Dominos, Pizza Hut, KFC, etc.

--
   revolution, food services per se date back to ancient times.

   Public eateries and street vendors were not an uncommon sight in
   ancient Rome, whereas travelers during medieval times often ate at
   monasteries, taverns, inns, and hostelries. But it was the French
--
   the Mughal era and is defined by the use of whole and ground spices.
   Some of the signature Mughlai dishes include kebabs, koftas, pilafs,
   and biryani. Delhi is also famous of its street food which includes
   parathas, chaats, and kulfi.

--

   If there was one year that changed the restaurant landscape of India it
   was 1996 when the American fast food chain McDonalds entered the
   country. With its colorful mascot, cheap burgers, and consistent
   looking and tasting French fries, McDonalds soon had the middle class
--
   number of youth on the planet, opportunities for the quick service
   restaurant industry is huge in India and it’s this potential that
   foreign fast food chains have taken advantage of.

   According to the NRAI, the Indian fast food market is worth $13
   billion, less than one-fifth that of China – the second largest fast
   food consuming market after the U.S. But while China is witnessing a
   decline in fast food sales, the Indian market is expected to grow.

   In fact, the fast food industry in India is growing at 19 percent
   annually, 4 percent faster than the Chinese fast food market, which is
   growing at 15 percent annually.

--

   What has worked for the quick service restaurants and international
   fast food chains in India is the shift in the eating out patterns.
   Because of the increase in disposable income, dining out is no longer
   reserved for celebrating special occasions. People go out to eat more
   and try international fast food joints as against the older generations
   that were less experimental in their tastes and not very trusting of
   the food quality and hygiene level maintained in restaurants.

   Also, with an increasing number of young adults embracing the American
   style fast food meals, India’s QSR story is still being written.

   4. Fine Dining comes of age in India
--
   Cantonese-style cuisine, Las Vegas’ Le Cirque serving up authentic
   French and Italian dishes; South African casual dining chain Nando’s
   famous for its peri-peri chicken; and American fast food chain Taco
   Bell serving Mexican inspired dishes setting up shop in India.

--
   chains. What this means is that you are likely to see more of brands
   like McDonalds, Pizza Hut, and Starbucks rather than smaller and
   lesser-known fast food chains in the malls. Proper seating arrangement
   and vendor combination to ease competition are other two big hurdles
   that Indian food courts have to cross to be able to achieve long-term
   success.

   7. Food moves from the street to online space

   Rapid urbanization, higher disposable income, and all the other factors
