   Indian market is different due to its cultural diversity. Gaining local
   acceptance and blending in to the Indian culture still remains a
   challenge for many fast food restaurants. Most multinational-chained
   food service companies adopted the franchising route to set up
   operations and expanded their market presence, as opposed to direct
--

   The researcher wishes to study, how consumers in Chandigarh perceive
   and utilize Western fast food offerings. Chandigarh is a Union
   Territory and the capital city of two states in North India (Punjab and
   Haryana).
--
   1.3 Project Scope And Research Objectives:
   The scope of the research project is focused on understanding consumer
   behavior of the residents of Chandigarh in respect of Western fast food
   offerings. The key research objective is-
     * To understand preferences of consumers in respect of Western Fast
--

   The research will focus on how consumers in Chandigarh perceive and
   utilize Western fast food offerings in general as well as certain
   categories of it, not to identify how to successfully promote one
   specific brand.
--

   1.4 Key Research Questions Addressed in the Study:
     * Who are the consumers of these Western fast food offerings?
     * How do consumers in Chandigarh typically become acquainted with
       Western fast food offerings?
     * What are consumers looking for in Western fast food offerings?
     * What could be done to encourage purchasing of Western fast food
       offerings?

   1.5 Limitations of the Study:
     * The research project concerns a pilot project on a limited number
       of individual western fast food offerings only, which may be
       extended to an envisioned continuous annual research program. After
       preliminary discussions with the major Western fast food sellers in
       Chandigarh three product categories have been selected i.e.
       burgers, pizzas, and
--
   determinants of food consumption behavior of Indians in general and in
   Chandigarh in particular, followed by an overview of the food market
   for Western fast food products.
   Advertisements
   [INS: :INS]
   2.2 Food consumption behavior
   The key objective of this research project is to learn more about local
   consumer preferences in Chandigarh in respect of Western fast food
   products, especially the way they perceive and utilize these products.
   In order to understand consumer preferences one needs to understand the
--
   is often strongly linked with eating habits.

   In the mid 1990’s, a spate of global fast food chains entered India to
   capture a part of Indian fast food segment. But they found it difficult
   to establish themselves. Gaining acceptance locally and blending into
   the Indian culture proved difficult. With regards to their menu,
   positioning and advertising, MNC fast food chains had to face lot of
   problems in getting accepted by the Indian consumer. After initial
   problems they realized that it was important to combine the local
--
   foods are considered fresh, healthy, and inexpensive. Given the
   distinct dietary habits and food preference of Indian consumers, it is
   not surprising that until the early 1990s Western fast food chains had
   largely ignored Indian markets. As a result, Nirula’s, the only notable
   Indian fast food chain, has been able to dominate the Indian market in
   fast food service sales^7.

   In an interview, Vikram Bakshi, MD, McDonald’s Delhi, said that even
   though the Indian outfit stuck to its core taste that grew on consumers
   from ‘bland’ to ‘unique’ in three years, with no change factored in by
   the fast food chain, McDonald’s menu still was about 75% different from
   its global menu^8.

--

   2.4 Fast Food in India:
   The concept of fast food isn’t new. Early in the 19th century, at the
   start of the Industrial Age when people had to work 12 to 14 hours a
   day, there was scarcely any time for long breaks for eating. The first
--

   2.4.1 Introduction to Fast food:
   The term “fast food” means just that. However, the boundary between
   fast foods and traditional dishes is fluid. In particular, it’s
   difficult to provide a qualitative distinction. Fast foods can also
--
   and plates are necessary, they are disposable.

   The characteristics of fast food, therefore, are that they require
   little time, offer a limited selection, are finger food, and the
   silverware and plates are disposable. These characteristics readily
--
   etc., and are supplemented with other foods.

   There are three general categories of fast food businesses:
   1. Self-service restaurants with a fast-food palette like McDonalds,
   Wendy’s, Burger King, Pizza Hut, etc.
--
   beverages.

   3.”On the street corner” hot-dog stands and snack stands with counters
   or a pair of stand-up tables.

   2.4.2 Fast food Industry Overview:
   Fast food is a food prepared and served quickly at a fast food
   restaurant or a shop. It is served usually in a carton or bags in order
   to minimize cost. Fast food outlets often provide take away or take out
--
   [INS: :INS]
   2.4.3 The Start of Fast food Culture:
   The concept of fast food pops up during 1920s.The 1950s first witnessed
   their rapid proliferation. Several factors that contributed to this
   explosive growth in 50’s were:
--
   Organized food retailing industry is still at infancy stage with share
   less than 1% of food retail market size in India (See Appendix-IV, pg-
   115; Comparison of Organized and Unorganized fast food Outlets). The
   percentage share held by food service of total consumer expenditure on
   food has increased from a very low base to stand at 2.6% in 2001.
--
   attractiveness among 30 emerging markets. The lack of consolidation and
   model retail concepts in India presents better opportunity to global
   players. Over 400 shopping malls, multiplexes, fast food giants,
   restaurants etc. are in planning or construction stage across the
   country^12.
--
   food industry is growing by 40% a year and is expected to generate a
   billion dollars in sales by 2005. The multinational segment of Indian
   fast food industry is up to Rs.6 bn, a figure expected to zoom to Rs.70
   bn by 2006. By 2006, the value of Indian dairy products is expected to
   be Rs.1, 00,000 million. In last 6 years, foreign investment in this
   sector stood at Rs. 3600 million, which is about one-fourth of total
   investment made in this sector. Because of the availability of raw
   material for fast food, Global chains are flooding into the country^13.

   There are approximately 22,000 registered restaurants in India. In
--
   India’s imports of processed consumer foods have traditionally remained
   low. Since the early 1990s, India’s food service sales have
   significantly increased. India’s processed and fast food markets have
   shown considerable potential for growth^15

--
   only. However, it claims to cater 50,000 guests everyday.

   Major players in fast food are:
     * McDonalds
     * Nirula’s
--
     * Subway

   Multinational fast food companies have given domestic competition a run
   for its money. While McDonalds sells more than Nirula’s, Pizza Hut and
   Dominos are doing more business than Pizza Corner. Within nine years of
--
   incomes.

   After a slow start, Western-style fast food restaurants have grown
   impressively at 12-15 percent annually over recent years. Most foreign
   chains (McDonald’s, Dominos, Pizza Hut, Subway, KFC, and TGIF) and
   local chains (Nirula’s and Pizza Corner) are doing well in major
   cities, and are expanding into smaller cities. Most of these fast food
   chains have developed a range of Indian-styled products to suit local
   preferences (such as the Maharaja chicken burger, veggie burger, etc.).
--
   variety in their choice of foods and are willing to spend more on
   international cuisine, including fast foods. Consequently, a growing
   number of domestic fast food outlets, home delivery, take-away
   restaurants, and American restaurant chains, such as Kentucky Fried
   Chicken (KFC), TGI Friday’s, Domino’s Pizza, Pizza Hut, McDonald’s, and
--
   largest country in terms of population possesses large potential market
   for all the products/services. This results into entry of large number
   of fast food players in the country.

   Relaxation in rules and regulations: With the economic liberalization
--
   2.8 Problems of Fast Food Industry in India:
   Environmental friendly products cost high: Government is legislating
   laws in order to keep check on the fast food industry and it is
   emphasizing more on the usage of biodegradable and environment friendly
   products. But associated with this issue is the problem that fast food
   player faces, which is the cost, associated with the environment
   friendly product. They cost much higher then the normal products that
--
   increase their profits. There is an excessive consumption of pizzas,
   noodles, ice-creams, beef/ham/cheese burgers, which constitute the
   universally available fast food. These constitute junk food having
   empty calories, which means this kind of food contains the calories
   that are not particularly helpful to one’s body. These days there is an
--
   There’s often not enough time or opportunity to shop carefully for
   groceries, or to cook and eat with one’s family. Especially on
   weekdays, fast food outside the home is the only solution. Today, only
   40% of young college-age people eat lunch at home. Mostly teenagers and
   young adults use fast food facilities when there is shortage of time.
   According to studies, 66% of young men and 33% of women in Switzerland
   eat one to two hamburgers a week, and half the teenagers eat
--
   gifts for small children, and an ambiance that is generally child- and
   teenager friendly. Large distributors, bakers and butchers, snack bars,
   and so on, also exploit the fast food trend and offer more take-out
   products.

--
   describe this phenomenon.

   Some noticeable facts about fast food industry are: Fast food had
   experienced fast growth in past decade. Changing lifestyles, breakdown
   of joint family system, increasing number of working women’s and
   western influence in urban areas are fuelling the demand for fast food.

   India already has the entire requirement for a head start in Fast food
--
   be increase in competition in the near future. Studies indicate that
   the highest percentage increase in units can be expected in the
   unorganized street stalls/kiosks sector. The one who will better
   understand and get closer to its target customer will win the game.

--
       the process of primary data collection through the questionnaire
       method. The standard questionnaire covered the awareness, attitude
       and behavior towards western fast food products in general and
       three selected product categories in particular.

--
   discussion and conclusion of the research. The sample comprises of 115
   consumers, selected at random. In this stage consumers were interviewed
   near fast food restaurants and information was gathered about their
   awareness, attitudes and preferences towards western fast food
   offerings.

   To make sure that the sample represented the entire Western fast food
   consuming population in the city of Chandigarh, the sample has been
   selected on ‘sector’ wise basis. The city is divided according to
   ‘sectors’ and fast food outlets were selected such that the sample
   represented the entire population of Chandigarh. A full list of the
   fast food outlets has been given in the Appendix to this research.
   The interpretation and analysis, which comprises of both quantitative
   and qualitative nature, is based on both the secondary and primary
--

   Value added technology services: There is continuous improvement in the
   technology as far as fast food market in India is considered. The
   reason behind that is food is a perishable item and in order to ensure
   that it remains fresh for a longer period of time, there is a need for
--
   3.6 Challenges for the Fast Food Industry in India:
   Social and cultural implications of Indians switching to western
   breakfast food: Generally, Hindus avoid all foods that are believed to
   inhibit physical and spiritual development. Eating meat is not
   explicitly prohibited, but many Hindus are vegetarian because they
--
   impure foods when they are prepared together. Some foods, such as beef
   or alcohol, are innately polluted and can never be made pure. But now,
   Indians are switching to fast food that contain all those things that
   are considered impure or against there beliefs. Some traditional and
   fundamentalist are against this transformation of food habit and number
--
   deliberate attempt at building an identity of a certain kind for the
   service. For example, McDonald’s in India has a slightly up market
   image than in the US, where it is viewed as cheap American fast food.
   Since a hamburger is an everyday item of American food, it made sense
   for McDonald’s to develop the positioning. In India that slot is
--
   idli-dosa corner food joints in the south, the parantha serving stalls
   in the north, or the tea and samosa corners of Kolkata. Therefore the
   mind space that most of the organized fast food restaurants had tried
   to occupy is of two types- One, the affluent westernized teenager and,
   Second, the modern, upscale family which is possibly driven by children
--

   Emphasis on the usage of biodegradable products: Glasses, silverware,
   plates and cloth napkins are never provided with fast food. Instead,
   paper plates and napkins, polyurethane containers, plastic cups and
   tableware, drinking cartons or PET (polyethylene terephthalate) bottles
--
   Based on the results of the secondary data collection 115 interviews
   were carried out to quantify the awareness, attitudes and behavior
   towards western fast food products in the city of Chandigarh on the
   basis of a questionnaire. The questionnaire included questions on
   western fast food in general and three selected product categories in
   particular.
   Advertisements
--
   competitively priced compared to local products.

   Most of the participants preferred to shop at organized fast food
   restaurants rather than in street stalls for the following reasons:
     * Shop premises is spacious and clean
     * Good sales service
--
     * Fresh ingredients used

   But, they also find the Western fast food offerings more expensive as
   compared to local fast food offerings. Older consumers prefer local
   fast food restaurants as compared to Western fast food restaurants. The
   most important reason being that Western fast food restaurants are
   often crowded with youngsters, and they prefer visiting restaurants
   where there is no self-service.
--
   participants are likely to purchase because these food products are
   perceived as clean and hygienic. Beverages are most often mentioned in
   combination with Western fast food items. Most of the participants are
   likely to purchase products that can be consumed as snack every day,
   which is having fewer fats. Frozen pizzas are not bought because people
   rather preferred fresh pizzas at Western restaurants such as Pizza Hut.

   Consumers like fast food offerings with a light sauce such as tomato
   sauce or with a special sauce (chutney) made from fresh vegetables for
   a healthier variant. Consumers are least likely to purchase alcoholic
   (beer, etc.) items because they don’t find it suitable with Western
   fast foods. Frozen offerings (frozen pizzas) also seem as least likely
   buy. All the participants prefer beverages with the Western fast food
   offerings. Participants did not like too oily products and salads are
   also mentioned by most of the buyers as a good combination with the
--
   average, they consume Western fast foods 3 to 4 times a week at
   restaurants, mostly at breakfast or at lunchtime, but some of them
   consume Western fast food up to 8 times a week. Participants opt for
   western cuisine at fast food restaurants such as McDonalds, Kentucky
   Fried Chicken, Pizza Hut and local organized fast food restaurants as
   these are the places that they recognized from their childhood onwards
   and are perceived to provide clean, quick, and reasonably priced food.
--
   Therefore, they would purchase the best quality food provided that the
   food is fresh, not expensive, has traditional flavors that satisfies
   their simple eating habits. Those who liked Western fast food as meal
   perceived it as cleaner and more hygienic, time saving, better quality
   and less expensive because of in-store promotions, and above all other
   family members, especially children liked the offerings.

   4.6.2 General attitudes towards Western fast food products:
   Most of the participants preferred Western fast food products above
   local fast food products for the following reasons (see also previous
   paragraph):
     * Food is fresher
--
   along with most often occurring motives as understood from the
   secondary data. Participants ranked their most important motives to try
   a Western fast food product for the first time in order of importance
   as follows:

--
   buying practices are family members, closed related friends, health
   issues, product information, in-store promotions and advertising.
   Most of the consumers agreed that Western fast food products are
   hygienic/safe to eat, easily available, time saving, convenient/easy to
   eat, ideal for social gatherings, enjoyable, give value for money and
--
   standard, eating habit, better nutritional value and freshness.
   Half of the participants agreed that a brand was important when
   choosing Western fast food products because of the following factors:
     * The general image of the company; if the company has a good
       reputation, this was perceived as a guarantee for high quality
--
   food products include taste, store cleanliness, freshness, nutritional
   benefits, food quality, price, country of origin, packaging and brand
   name. All participants are aware that the price of Western fast food
   products is higher than the prices for local food products. However,
   they are willing to pay more for a Western food product over a similar
--
   preference for freshness. As most of the participants spend most of
   their time outside their home, food shopping tends to be done daily.
   Because generally fast food products are consumed right away there is
   no need for storage or preservation, therefore, products are always
   purchased extremely fresh. When eating alone or in small groups, there
--
   encourage or discourage the adoption of Western fast foods.

   Seniors are generally less likely to adopt Western fast food
   consumption behaviors (home cooked food is generally preferred by
   elderly people). The role of mass media in the adoption of Western fast
--
   product to be chosen over a similar Indian product.

   However, the people’s love for fast food is reflected in the
   overwhelming number of fast food outlets, whether they are western fast
   food restaurants, local fast food restaurants, snack shops or street
   stalls/kiosks.

--
   The food market in Chandigarh is a large market, which offers
   opportunities for overseas suppliers and producers as a significant
   number of fast food products are in big demand. Chandigarh has a
   population of 6.5 million, comprising mostly of domestic households.

--
   people dine out at lunchtime.

   Awareness of Western fast food products among Hong Kong consumers is
   high. On average shoppers mention 3.8 Western fast food products
   (un-prompted), when asked. Fresh pizzas, burgers, hot-dogs, French
   fries and sandwiches are mentioned most.

   Local fast food restaurants are the main outlets for fresh food
   products, especially among elderly grocery shoppers. However, as
   younger generations tend to adopt a more Western lifestyle, Western
   fast food outlets are enjoying an increasing share of the market.

   The market for western fast food products is a highly competitive
   market in Chandigarh, due to its free and open nature. Fast food chains
   are originating from all over the world, but the dominant fast food
   chains are from the U.S. Due to the ambience and better service
   conditions, local fast food outlets are preferred by the elderly
   consumers.

   5.1.2 Who are the Consumers of Western fast food products:
   Western food products are mostly bought by consumers in the younger age
   group or are bought on behalf of them by family members/older relatives
--
   relatively open to try out new products and tastes. Differences in age
   and income are important determinants of attitudes and preferences
   towards Western fast food products.

   Hamburgers:
--
   for their children.

   5.1.3 How consumers become acquainted with Western fast food products:
   The influence of western culture through media or recommendation from
   relatives or close friends is an important factor of how people get
   acquainted with Western fast food products. Another important way for
   consumers to learn about Western fast foods is dining out in one of the
   many Western restaurants. Especially fast food chains as McDonalds and
   Pizza Hut are well known by consumers. Other important direct triggers
   are advertising, in-store promotions in fast food outlets such as Happy
   meals, free gifts for kids and so on.

--
   – Advertising, in-store promotions (20%)

   5.1.4 What are consumers looking for in Western fast food products:
     * Generally, Western fast food products are preferred above local
       fast food products for the following reasons:
       – Freshness – Better/durable packaging
       – Better quality – Easy and quick to consume
       – Clean and hygienic – Variety in offerings
       – Better sales service – Better nutritional value
     * Consumers think that the price of Western fast food products is
       higher than the price of local foods, but they are willing to pay
       more for quality and service. Average and higher income shoppers
--
     * Taste appears to be strength and a weakness for different products.
       49% of all respondents, regardless of gender, age or income; rate
       taste as the most important factor why they like Western fast food
       products. However, when inquiring the dislikes towards Western food
       products, price and ‘unhealthy to eat’ are rated by most of the
       participants as the main ‘dislike’. Younger people like Western
       fast food products more because of its taste, convenience (easy to
       eat) and quality. Higher income shoppers like Western fast food
       products more because of its taste, quality, its appearance and
       packaging. However, most of the female consumers dislike the
       offerings because of its higher price.
     * Purchasing a branded product is considered important when choosing
       Western fast food products. Consumers associate these with the
       general image of the company as a guarantee for the quality, safety
       and hygiene of the product sold by that company. Well-known brands
--
       difference to the consumers.
       Hamburgers:
     * Western hamburgers are mainly bought in Western fast food outlets.
       Convenient/easy to eat, ‘children like it’ and taste are the most
       important reasons for buying hamburgers. Female and older buyers
--
       important products preferred in combination with the hamburgers are
       beverages, ketchup, and salads. When hamburgers are not available,
       some buyers would buy any kind of fast food product, whether
       western or local, as an alternative, while others would end up not
       buying anything at all.
--
     * 53% of the consumers buy pizzas 1-2 times per week and purchase
       frequency of pizzas is higher in the income group of Rs.15, 000-25,
       000. Pizzas are mainly bought in Western fast food outlets. Taste
       is the most important reason for buying pizzas. Taste and having
       too much caloric value are also the most important reasons people
--
     * Most buyers would not buy another substitute in case of
       unavailability of a pizza, although 79% of the younger buyers
       (15yrs. to 25yrs.) would prefer any kind of Western fast food as an
       alternative to pizzas. The most important products preferred in
       combination with the pizzas are beverages, ketchup, dip sauce and
--
   the next few decades, particularly in urban India. Gaining local
   acceptance and blending in to the Indian culture still remains a
   challenge for many fast food restaurants. The study was undertaken with
   an objective to understand the preferences of consumers in Chandigarh
   on Western fast food offerings and based on the results of the study
   the main objective was to identify factors to be considered to
   encourage buying of western fast food offerings.
   Following are some of the recommendations that can be adopted by
   various brands to encourage the buying of Western fast food products.

   India’s fast food industry is growing by 40% a year and is expected to
   generate a billion dollars in sales by 2006. Marketing of fast food and
   getting a foothold in India is going to be highly competitive in the
   near future because of the high potential of the Indian processed food
   sector. On an average, each household spends about 50% of income on
   food and beverages. Following factors should be considered to encourage
   purchasing of Western fast food products:
     * Price appears to be a critical factor in the choice making process
       of consumers, especially younger people. A typical Indian is price
       sensitive because of his modest disposable income and he has
       comparable options in local food. Globally fast food chains only
       succeed when they bring their prices down to the same level as the
       street food. The trick can be to make the offerings better than the
       local food, and price them competitively. Most of the times this
       becomes impossible, so this can be counterbalanced by concentrating
--
       attractive feature. The trend towards takeaways is also fast
       gaining popularity among Indian consumers. Most of the consumers of
       fast food products are from the younger age group; therefore the
       potential consumers should be enticed with TV spots, children
       parties, gifts for kids, and an ambience that is child and teenager
       friendly. Older consumers prefer to visit local fast food
       restaurants instead of self-service Western style restaurants;
       hence addressing such need can be an added feature. In India,
       social and cultural values have a very strong hold on the people.
       The fast food culture has imposed greatly on the views of
       youngsters and the desire for a large family meal. The marketers
       should focus more on positioning themselves as family restaurants
--
       having a more efficient distribution system in par with existing
       global standards. It needs to expand in India in parallel to the
       new trend in fast food chains, setting out tiny outlets such as
       express, takeaway, delivery and small dine-ins by fuel stations, in
       multiplexes and other highly frequently visited locations.
--
   existing research gaps:
     * The research project concerned a pilot project on a limited number
       of individual Western fast food offerings only, which may be
       extended to an envisioned continuous annual research programme. The
       scope and content of the study could be widened if similar research
--
       of consumers for the various offerings, and services (e.g.
       home-delivery service, etc.). It will give a deep insight about
       liking and buying behavior of consumers towards Western fast food
       offerings.
     * More intensive and time bound location specific research efforts
       are needed to get a foothold in a highly competitive fast food
       market like India.

--
   company
   www.my-voice.com (Accessed July 18, 2005).
   11 Khurshid Anwar Warsi & Syeedun Nisa, Food Retailing: fast food
   industry,
   Publisher-Social Service Research Network.
