   in markets or open places. They may include the solid food items,
   various drinks or juices. Street food has become a very important
   business nowadays. And people have always admired and loved street food
   and street food markets.
   You walk across the street and you will see many vendors selling the
   food items. These are the delicious, traditional food items. They have
   a unique aroma and flavor attached with them that makes every passer-by
--
   these food items. According to a report of FAO (Food and Agriculture
   organization) there are around 2.5 million people who tend to eat
   street food daily. That is to say, the number of consumers of ‘street
   food’ is increasing day by day.

--

   Every culture and region has a history that shows the love of people
   for street food. It dates back to the ancient Greece time period. They
   used to serve fried fish as their most common street dish. For people
   of ancient Rome street food was their main source of food. The
   ‘chickpea soup’ was a commonly sold item. China has a similar history.
   During colonial time of America, the vendors used to sell ‘roasted
   oysters and corn’. Oysters remained as a popular street dish due to its
   cheap price and delicious taste till 1910. After that there came a
   little set back to it. New York had a bit different history. The
   government put many restrictions on vendors and then actually
   completely banned this business by 1707. In Africa, many women and
   children get their earnings from selling street meals. Another example,
   during 19th century in Transylvania, vendors used to sell ‘ginger
   bread’ and ‘corn mixed with cream’ on the streets. ‘French fries’
   emerged in Paris as the most selling street meal by 1840. In Thailand,
   initially this business couldn’t gain much popularity. In Japan, street
   food business started 100 years back where it was provided to students
   and laborers.


Advantages of street food

   There are certain advantages of street food that has contributed to its
   popularity worldwide, such as:
   • It is easily available on the streets. Hence you can easily buy them
   without making an extra effort to go to a far place for food
   • The taste is delicious and unique
--


Difference between street food and fast food

   A strong association between street food and fast food is often
   created. But this is entirely wrong. They can only be linked in the
   sense that both are readily available. You don’t have to wait extra
--
   preservatives and chemical compounds. Fast food companies spend lots of
   money for preserving the texture and flavor of their food items with
   the use of these chemical additives. Whereas the street food is fresh
   and pure, just like homemade food, free from all sorts of
   preservatives.
   • Chefs and vendors prepare the street food in front of the customers.
   So the customer knows the ingredients of the food items. On the other
   hand in fast food, a person is totally oblivion of right ingredients
   • Street food consists of traditional dishes of that area. This is not
   the case with fast food.


Love of Street food in India

   The street food business in India has flourished to a vast extent.
   Indeed, many people love to eat it. The street food contains a vast
   variety of food items that are available to people in the form of meat,
   vegetables, chicken, cheese products etc.
--
   have a very diverse range of savors. They have quite a large range of
   spices admixed with food, giving a unique taste to every food item.
   There are large amount of street food items in India that you can try,
   such as paratha’s, gol gappas, tandoori chicken, kahthi rolls, bheil
   puri, aloo tikki, pakoras, samosas, kebabs, etc. They keep a long
--


   Tags: food, good food, indico, street food
   Share:
   Share on Facebook Tweet about this on Twitter Share on Google+ Pin on
--
Tags

   art artwork drinks food India indian food indico street street food

follow us
