   #alternate Edit this page Wikipedia (en)

Indian fast food

   From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
--
   Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable
   sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
   Find sources: "Indian fast food" – news · newspapers · books ·
   scholar · JSTOR (January 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this
   template message)
--
     * e

   The fast food industry in India has evolved with the changing
   lifestyles of the young Indian population.^[citation needed] The
   variety of gastronomic preferences across the regions, hereditary or
--

   Many of the traditional dishes have been adapted to suit the emerging
   fast food outlets. The basic adaptation is to decrease the processing
   and serving time. For example, the typical meal which called for being
   served by an ever-alert attendant is now offered as a Mini-Meal across
--
   the same premises. Presence of a large vegetarian population, who
   eschew non-vegetarian food, has given rise to outlets which exclusively
   serve vegetarian fast food. Also, different variety of food may be
   served depending on the times of the day. Beverages such coffee, tea,
   soft drinks and fruit juices may also be served in such outlets. Some
--
   ice-cream, chaats etc.

   Popular formats of fast food business in India have the following
   features in common:
     * Wide opening on the roadside
--
     * Rust-proof and non-breakable crockery

   Most of the fast food outlets in India are stand alone establishment,
   few of them having more than one branch.

--
Food courts[edit]

   Another concept of fast food that is becoming popular is that of Food
   Courts. Here also one has to purchase coupons and collect the food from
   one of the several counters. Each one of these counters serves specific
--
   only Indian chain which boasts of hundreds of outlets and is present
   across India. But then it is classified more as a coffee shop than a
   fast food place.

   Now local chains coupled with numerous foreign fast foods have sprung
   up in India, leading to many websites not only catering to the curated
   list of foods, restaurants and reviews but also giving option to book
--
   everything. Preference of the local population and the location of the
   outlet influence the menu more than anything else. Some of the popular
   dishes offered at Indian fast food outlets are:

Western Indian[edit]
--
   892122"
   Categories:
     * Indian fast food
     * Fast food
     * Indian cuisine
